PART 1: THE TECHNICAL HIRING PICTURE IN 2023


KEY TAKEAWAY


Organizations are generally reluctant 
to reduce technical staff, primarily 
due to the difficulty in finding, hiring, 
and retaining skilled technical talent. 
When faced with economic uncer-
tainty, organizations prefer imple-
menting a temporary hiring freeze 
and, if necessary, reducing compen-
sation rather than resorting to laying 
off staff. This brings up an important 
question about how organiza-
tions can keep their technical staff 
engaged and enhance their technical 
skills when hiring is not an option.


At 8% overall, reductions alone were not the only 
strategy used to scale back technical staff. More 
complex strategies that involved reducing technical 
staff included:
•  Reducing staff and implementing a hiring 
freeze (6% overall)
•  Reducing staff, implementing a hiring freeze, 
and then hiring (4% overall)
•  Reducing staff and then hiring (2% overall)


While 20% of organizations overall did showcase 
strategies that involved staff reductions, 6 percentage 
points out of these 20 did involve hiring as well.


Looking at the 59% of organizations that expressed 
economic concerns, the primary strategy for 
addressing these concerns was to freeze hiring 
(34%), followed by a focus on hiring (32%) and staff 
reductions (13%).


PHOTO FROM THE LINUX FOUNDATION / KUBECON EUROPE 2023


 10


This contrasts significantly with the 41% of organi-
zations that did not express economic concerns. 
Among these organizations, 62% only intended to 
increase hiring, followed by 24% that only indicated 
they would freeze hiring and just 2% that would 
primarily reduce their technical headcount.


Changes to hiring plans 
in 2023 by industry 
focus on increasing or 
freezing technical staff
Organizations across different industries reported 
mixed results in their hiring plans. Some industries 
showed growth, while others faced significant chal-
lenges, as shown in FIGURE 3. On average, 57% of all 
organizations reported increased hiring plans, indi-
cating cautious optimism about the future. However, 
46% of organizations also reported freezing staff 
hiring, and 20% were reducing staff, highlighting the 
continued uncertainty and challenges facing busi-
nesses. The reason these percentages do not add 
up to 100% is shown on the bottom part of FIGURE 2. 
Organizations sometimes pursue complex hiring 
strategies that initially combine a staff reduction or 
freeze on hiring with a later decision to hire all within 
a single year.


The industries with the highest percentage of orga-
nizations planning to increase their workforce were 
cloud service providers, telecom ISP / Web hosting, 
and healthcare, with an average of 65% reporting 
an increase in hiring plans. These industries seem to 


