PART 2: THE UPSKILLING TREND IN 2023


FIGURE 6 
TECHNOLOGY AREA OPPORTUNITIES FOR  
MORE RISK-AVERSE ORGANIZATIONS
In which technology areas are / will you be reducing technical staff in 2023? 
[Asked if the respondent’s organization is reducing technical headcount in 2023] 
Which of the following technology areas are staffed by technical headcount? 


Cloud / Container technologies
Artiﬁcial intelligence /
Machine learning
DevOps / GitOps / DevSecOps
Advanced analytics
and data science
Cybersecurity
Database and data
management
CI / CD & DevOps
Blockchain
Linux
Networking technologies
(5G, SDN, NFV, etc.)
Web & application development
Manufacturing, 3D printing,
and CAD / CAM
Storage technologies
Edge computing
Augmented / Virtual reality
IoT & Embedded
Open source hardware
Kubernetes


7%


40%


41%
41%


33%


28%
27%


24%
24%
24%
23%
20%
20%


29%


30%


37%


43%


36%


24%


17%
16%
15%
14%
13%
13%
13%
14%
11%
10%


22%
20%
22%


59%


48%


58%


54%


Areas targeted for staﬃng decreases
Areas currently staﬀed


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q42 (areas where reductions will occur), sample size = 82, valid cases = 82, total mentions = 302.
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q21 (areas currently staffed), sample size = 418, valid cases = 418, total mentions = 2,569.


 15


AI / ML is the only technology area that shows a high 
volume of organizations looking to increase staff 
and is an area where organizations prioritize tech-
nical staff hiring.


Technology opportunities 
in more risk-averse 
organizations
Using the same approach to evaluate volume and 
priority in FIGURE 5, we can analyze the hiring plans 
of minority organizations (~20% of respondents) 
who are planning 2023 staffing decreases shown 
in FIGURE 6. We label those organizations who are 
planning to decrease staff as being risk averse. 
This is because these organizations are sufficiently 
concerned about the economy they already have or 
are planning to decrease staff in 2023. These actions 
characterize organizations—many of whom are 
successful—that prioritize stable financial metrics 
and wish to shed some financial risk in various 
aspects of their operations where they feel overex-
tended. We do not equate risk averse with impending 
financial difficulty. It is just an organizational recog-
nition acknowledging that minimizing disruptions to 
investors and shareholders is important.


FIGURE 6 shows that the technology areas where 
the greatest percentage of risk-averse organizations 
are looking to decrease technical staff include cloud 
/ container technologies (40%), AI / ML (33%), and 
DevOps / GitOps / DevSecOps (28%). The magnitude 
of these volumes is less than we saw in FIGURE 5 and 


