PART 2: THE UPSKILLING TREND IN 2023


reflects a moderate percentage of organizations 
seeking to decrease technical staff in these areas.


High-priority areas for decreasing staff based on 
calculated priority ratios (percent of organizations 
decreasing staff divided by percent areas currently 
staffed) include blockchain (118%), manufacturing, 
3D printing, CAD / CAM (107%), and augmented / 
virtual reality (98%).


Interestingly, the technology areas with the highest 
percent of risk-averse organizations seeking to 
decrease technical staff attach only a moderate 
priority to decreasing technical staff in those areas. 
The priority ratio for cloud / container technologies 
and DevOps / GitOps / DevSecOps is just 68%. The 
ratio for AI / ML is somewhat higher at 80%. What 
this tells us is that organizations are most interested 
in shedding technical staff from technology areas 


TABLE 1 
THE IMPACT OF NET STAFFING CHANGES 
ON TECHNOLOGY AREA EMPHASIS
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q51 and Q42 compared to Q21.


TECHNOLOGY AREAS
Cybersecurity
Cloud / Container technologies
Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning
Database and data management
Advanced analytics and data science
Web & application development
Networking technologies (5G, SDN, NFV, etc.)
DevOps / GitOps / DevSecOps
CI/CD & DevOps
Kubernetes
Linux
IoT & Embedded
Edge computing
Augmented / Virtual reality
Storage technologies
Open source hardware
Blockchain
Manufacturing, 3D printing, and CAD / CAM


2022 
RANK
2
1
6
3
4
5
8
7
11
13
10
14
12
18
9
15
16
17


2023 
RANK
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18


NET 2023 STAFFING 
IMPACT ON RANK
+1
-1
+3
-1
-1
-1
+1
-1
+2
+3
-1
+2
-1
+4
-6
-1
-1
-1


 16


that were complex and speculative areas of invest-
ment that likely didn’t generate the expected ROI.


Technology areas that have a low priority ratio for 
decreasing technical staff include Kubernetes (33%), 
storage technologies (38%), web & application devel-
opment (39%), cybersecurity (42%), database and 
data management (45%), and open source hardware 
(49%). The low priority of reducing staff in these 
areas reflects the more mission-critical nature of 
these technologies to the organization, which means 
higher job security.


The overall impact of 
technical staffing changes on 
technology area emphasis
FIGURES 5 and 6 evaluated how staffing increases 
and staffing reductions impact the volume and 
priority of technical staffing changes across tech-
nology areas. TABLE 1 shows the combined impact 
of staffing increases and reductions on the overall 
ranking of technology areas. This analysis was 
based on the number of organizations increasing 
their technical staff (N=235) and reducing technical 
staff (N=82). Comparing technology areas originally 
staffed by technical headcount with the net impact 
of increasing and reducing staff yields a modest 
change in the rank order of technology areas being 
staffed.


TABLE 1 indicates that most technology areas 
changed by only + / - 1 position. This will not have 


