2023 State of Tech Talent Report


Economic concerns caused 
59% of organizations to 
revise their 2023 technical 
hiring plans primarily by 
freezing new positions, but 
more plan to increase 
hiring than decrease.


New hiring 
continues to focus 
on developers and 
newer technologies, 
while senior technical 
roles bear the brunt of 
job cuts (45%).


Both cloud and 
managed service 
providers (65%) and 
telecommunications 
organizations (65%) 
are more likely 
to increase their 
technical staff  in 2023. 


Organizations increasing 
their hiring in 2023 are 
focusing on newer 
technologies: cloud / 
containers (50%), 
cybersecurity (50%), 
and AI / ML (46%).


70% of organizations 
surveyed provide 
training opportunities 
for existing technical 
staff on new 
technologies. 


When unable to ﬁnd 
suitable technical 
candidates, 
organizations trained 
existing employees 
(58%) more often 
than hiring 
consultants (38%).


64% of respondents agreed that 
recruitment is costly, time-
consuming, and can lead to the 
wrong candidate and quick 
turnover. Almost one out of 
three new hires (29%) 
depart within six
months of being onboarded. 


25% of 
organizations have 
increased their 
reliance on training 
and certification 
incentives in 2023.


Most respondents agree 
that certification (73%) 
and pre-employment 
testing (81%) are 
necessary to verify 
skills, addressing the 
challenges of ﬁnding the 
right candidate.


Respondents felt that 
upskilling (91%) and 
certifications (77%) are 
more important than a 
university education 
(58%) to address 
technology needs.


53% of respondents 
felt upskilling is 
extremely important 
to acquire the skills 
and knowledge your 
organization needs. 


Training is a 
significant strategy for 
organizations; half of 
those reducing (52%) or 
freezing (50%) their 
hiring plan to upskill to 
address talent needs. 


Copyright © 2023 The Linux Foundation | May 2023. This report is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License.


