PART 6: THE IMPACT OF INCREASING, PAUSING, OR REDUCING TECHNICAL STAFF IN 2023


other alternatives are out of reach. 52% of organiza-
tions that are facing technical staff reductions rely on 
training to upskill staff much in the same manner as 
organizations that have had to pause their hiring.


FIGURE 15 also points out that negative outcomes, 
such as increased workloads and longer time 
frames for product delivery, are likely to occur 


when organizations cut staff or pause hiring plans. 
Specifically, 43% of organizations that will be reducing 
staff and 37% that will freeze staffing plans are 
expecting longer time frames for product delivery. In 
contrast, only 25% of those increasing staffing believe 
that it will result in a quicker time to market. 


staff and 30% of those that are freezing staffing 
plans expect to increase the workloads of their 
technical staff members. In contrast, only 26% of 
those increasing staffing believe that it will ease the 
workload of their technical staff members.


Similarly, 39% of organizations that are reducing 


Strategies for what technical staff 
roles to add or reduce vary wildly
Organizations that have the opportunity to add 
technical staff have lots more flexibility within their 
budget constraints than organizations that must 
reduce technical headcount.


FIGURE 16 shows that when organizations add 
staff, they emphasize adding staff to either scale 
existing development teams or populate new ones. 
Developers are the primary focal point for 67% of 
organizations, followed by senior technical staff at 
58% and junior technical staff at 51%. As a tech-
nical organization scales, there is always a need for 
additional training (41%) and support staff (40%). 
The addition of contractors (22%) addresses unique 
requirements or levels peak loads.


When organizations must reduce staff, there are 
different concerns to address. An obvious first 
move is to shed contractors, as identified by 40% 
of organizations, and lay off recently hired tech-
nical staff (34%) who have yet to amass significant 
experience and generate value add. While it is 
painful to consider laying off senior technical staff, 
their compensation can sometimes be significant 
compared to convention developers (35%) and espe-
cially junior staff (35%). In some cases, organizations 
can eliminate most of an entire team, and those 


FIGURE 16 
TYPES OF STAFF MOST IMPACTED BY CHANGES  
IN TECHNICAL STAFF INCREASES OR REDUCTIONS
What types of technical staff is your company adding or reducing?   
[Asked if the organization is increasing or reducing its technical headcount in 2023]


Software developers and engineers


35%


67%


58%


45%


51%


Senior technical staﬀ


Junior technical staﬀ


Technical training staﬀ


Technical support staﬀ


Technical R&D staﬀ


Contractors or part-time
outside technical resources


Technical staﬀ most recently hired


35%


34%


41%


40%


30%


40%


34%


23%
20%
22%


Don’t know or not sure


5%


Increasing technical staﬀ in 2023
Decreasing technical staﬀ in 2023


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q48 (increasing staff), sample size = 235, valid cases = 235, total mentions = 711. 
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q38 (reducing staff), sample size = 82, valid cases = 82, total mentions = 229.


 32


