PART 6: THE IMPACT OF INCREASING, PAUSING, OR REDUCING TECHNICAL STAFF IN 2023


team members can be reallocated to other teams. 
This creates a somewhat more equalized approach 
in which staff are subject to a reduction in force.


FIGURE 17 shows developers and IT management 
are the most commonly recruited roles. Specifically, 


67% of organizations are increasing their tech-
nical staff target for developers and engineers. 
Moreover, when taking the type of engineer out of 
the equation, software developer is still the most 
likely job role being recruited, with 54% of organiza-
tions looking to staff up and target more developers 


FIGURE 17 
DEVELOPERS AND IT MANAGEMENT ARE THE MOST RECRUITED  
ROLES BY ORGANIZATIONS INCREASING THEIR HIRING
What kinds of positions are you looking to fill with technical staff? 


54%


46%


40%


37%


Developer
IT Management


DevOps
Engineer


Security Professional
Project Manager
Data Engineer
Systems Administrator
Network Administrator
Data Scientist
Architect
DevSecOps
Executive Management
GitOps
Other (please specify)
Don’t know or not sure


30%
28%
27%
26%
26%
24%
23%


20%


12%


7%


1%
2%


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q53, sample size = 235, valid cases = 235, total mentions = 950.


 33


for their technical staff. At 46%, IT management is 
the second most commonly sought role. 


The survey reveals an interesting trend: 
Organizations that believe recent tech talent layoffs 
facilitate the identification of exceptional candi-
dates are more likely to hire IT management roles if 
they expand their technical workforce. These roles, 
which could be viewed as senior technical staff, are 
of greater interest to 56% of these organizations 
compared to the average respondent, where only 
46% are looking to hire for IT management positions. 


KEY TAKEAWAY


The 2023 State of Tech Talent Survey 
reveals that training is essential for both 
increased and reduced hiring moves. 
Negative outcomes, such as increased 
workloads and longer time frames for 
product delivery, are likely to occur 
when organizations cut staff or pause 
hiring plans, and job cuts are blamed on 
revenue misses and economic caution. 
Furthermore, the types of staff most 
affected by staffing cuts are senior 
staff members, while developers and 
IT management are the most recruited 
roles.


