The report also shows that certifications and 
pre-employment testing are becoming necessary 
tools for organizations to verify the skills of poten-
tial candidates. At Linux Foundation Training & 
Certification, we understand the importance of 
certifications in demonstrating technical profi-
ciency and validating expertise. We design our 
certification programs to equip individuals with 
the skills and knowledge needed to succeed 
in today's fast-paced tech industry and assure 
prospective employers that candidates demon-
strate the required skill sets.


As the tech industry evolves, we recognize the 
crucial role of ongoing learning and development 
in staying ahead of the curve. The 2023 State of 
Tech Talent Report provides valuable insights 
into the ongoing changes and challenges in the 
tech industry workforce. We encourage hiring 
managers to use this report as a resource in their 
training and staffing efforts and look forward 
to continuing to provide valuable research and 
training resources for the tech industry.


Clyde Seepersad 
SVP & General Manager, Training & 
Certification, The Linux Foundation


Foreword
I am thrilled to present the findings of the 2023 
State of Tech Talent Survey. This report is a 
valuable resource for organizations seeking to 
understand the current and future technology 
staffing requirements and skills needed within 
their teams.


The report sheds light on the impact of economic 
concerns on technical hiring plans, revealing that 
more than 50% of organizations surveyed have 
revised their hiring plans due to ongoing global 
economic uncertainty. However, the report also 
shows that despite these challenges, the demand 
for skilled tech talent remains strong, particularly 
in newer areas such as cloud / containers, cyber-
security, and AI / ML.


Training and upskilling are essential strategies for 
organizations looking to address the changing 
hiring landscape. The report highlights that 70% 
of organizations surveyed provide training oppor-
tunities for their existing technical staff on new 
technologies, demonstrating a commitment to 
ongoing development and growth.


Upskilling is becoming more important for 
recruitment, with organizations choosing to train 
existing employees more often than hiring consul-
tants when they cannot find suitable external 
candidates. This recognizes the value of investing 
in existing staff and the challenges of finding the 
right external candidates.


 4


