PART 1: THE TECHNICAL HIRING PICTURE IN 2023


PHOTO BY CAMILA MARTINEZ ON UNSPLASH


The bottom part of FIGURE 1 combines both invol-
untary (layoffs) and voluntary (retirements and 
resignations) technical headcount reductions. 
Layoffs often result in a redistribution of respon-
sibilities, which sometimes can be significant and 
will precipitate additional resignations as remaining 
staff evaluate their roles, workloads, and opportu-
nities. For this reason, FIGURE 1 staff reductions are 
best described as turnover because of their volun-
tary and involuntary components. Vendor / service 
provider organizations experienced very high 
turnover, at 39%. Meanwhile, end-user organizations 
averaged 25% turnover, more in line with typical pre- 
pandemic levels.


For an evaluation of staff reductions segmented by 
company size (number of employees), see TABLE A17.
The impact of economic 
concerns on technical 
staff hiring in 2023
Economic concerns beginning in 2022 and extending 
into 2023 have impacted hiring plans, especially in 
North America.


As shown on the top half of FIGURE 2, 59% of 
surveyed organizations reported revising their tech-
nical hiring plans in response to these concerns, 
37% elected to leave their technical hiring plans 
unchanged, and 4% said they didn't know or were not 
sure (DKNS). The majority of organizations (59%) have 
concerns about how to plan for 2023, but 41% did not 
expressly state concerns about how the economy 
would impact their technical hiring plans in 2023.


 8


KEY TAKEAWAY


Despite the economic 
concerns and layoffs that 
have impacted the tech 
industry, the 2023 State of 
Tech Talent Survey data 
suggests that hiring trends 
remain strong, with the 
ongoing demand for skilled 
technical talent, especially 
at the more entry level for 
professionals with developer 
skills. This is particularly 
true for certain sectors, such 
as cloud and telecommu-
nications, which continue 
to play a critical role in the 
technology adoption land-
scape. The outlook for hiring 
in the tech industry remains 
positive, with many organi-
zations planning to increase 
their technical headcount in 
the coming years.


