PART 1: THE TECHNICAL HIRING PICTURE IN 2023


FIGURE 2
THE IMPACT OF ECONOMIC CONCERNS ON TECHNICAL STAFF HIRING


4%


Don’t know or not sure


Did economic concerns 
beginning in 2022 cause your 
organization to change or 
revise your 2023 technical 
headcount hiring plans? 
4%
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q20, sample size = 418.


No
37%
Don’t know or not sure


Yes
59%


No
37%


Yes
59%
How did concerns about the 2022 economy impact 
Increase
your 2023 technical staff hiring plans?  
30%
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q34 (contingent on Q20), sample size = 247, valid cases = 247, total mentions = 313.
Freeze
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q35, sample size = 171, valid cases = 171, total mentions = 193.
13%


Reduce


24%


8%


32%


34%


44%


Increase


Freeze


Freeze and increase


Reduce and freeze


Reduce


Freeze and increase


Reduce and freeze


2%


13%


8%
Reduce, freeze, and increase
6%
7%
Reduce and increase
5%
6%
6%
Don't know or not sure
5%
4%
6%


Reduce, freeze, and increase


1%
2%
3%
1%
0%
0%
0%


Reduce and increase


Don't know or not sure


44%


62%


Composite view
Yes, revised 2023 plans
No, unchanged 2023 plans 


2%


32%


6%
7%
5%
30%
6%
6%
24%
5%
4%
6%


34%


1%
2%
3%
1%
0%
0%
0%


Composite view
Yes, revised 2023 plans
No, unchanged 2023 plans 


 9


The chart on the bottom part of  FIGURE 2 shows 
the difference between those organizations where 
the economic concerns caused a revision of plans 
and those organizations that were not as concerned 
about the economy and left their 2023 hiring 
plans unchanged. The same figure also shows a 
composite view when you combine all the organiza-
tions together. Various responses to the questions 
included increasing staff, freezing staff hires, 
reducing staff, or DKNS. Respondents could select 
multiple responses. This chart, therefore, shows all 
the possible response permutations in descending 
order based on the overall composite view.


62%


Perhaps the most interesting finding is that despite 
economic headwinds, the overall composite view shows 
more organizations were planning to increase their 
staff in 2023 (44%) but did not anticipate any reductions 
or freezes to balance those increases. Looking across all 
the strategies that involved staff hiring, 56% of organi-
zations intended to hire in 2023 even if other activities 
such as staff reductions or freezes were also involved. 
This is encouraging and suggests that while organiza-
tions are economically concerned about 2023, they are 
not amending their hiring plans.


Part of the concern that does exist is expressed by 
the 30% of organizations overall that elected to solely 
put staffing freezes in place and the additional 6% 
that were looking to first freeze and then hire, the 
6% that were going to reduce staff and then freeze, 
and finally the 4% looking to reduce, freeze, and then 
ultimately hire. This shows that strategies involving 
staff freezes were a preferred path forward in 2023 
and represent a conservative but not overly punitive 
approach to dealing with an uncertain economy.


