FIGURE 4 
MAJORITY ANTICIPATE INCREASED HIRING LATER IN 2023 / 24
What are your long-term technical staffing plans? 


We are planning to hire
technical staﬀ in 2024


We may be able to hire
technical staﬀ later this year


We are not anticipating
any changes to staﬃng
later in 2023 or 2024


Based on the economy, we
don't anticipate any more staﬀ
reductions in 2023 or 2024


Based on the economy, we
may see more technical staﬀ
reductions in 2023 or 2024


Don't know or not sure


3%
3%
4%


38%


16%


20%


46%


39%


33%


32%


35%


41%


22%
22%
21%


16%


25%


56%


2023 plans to hire staﬀ
2023 plans to freeze hiring
2023 plans to reduce staﬀ


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q50 (hire strategy), sample size = 235, valid cases = 235, total mentions = 369.
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q45 (freeze strategy), sample size = 189, valid cases = 189, total mentions = 276.
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q41 (reduce strategy), sample size = 82, valid cases = 82, total mentions = 138.


PART 1: THE TECHNICAL HIRING PICTURE IN 2023


Long-term staffing 
plans reflect cautious 
optimism beyond 2023
The long-term plans of organizations are based on 
the strategies they have identified when addressing 
2023 technical staff changes, as shown in FIGURE 4. 
Organizations could select multiple strategies (hire, 
freeze, reduce) and more than one longer-term 
approach for each strategy. While this complicates 
the analysis, there is room for cautious optimism.


For organizations planning to hire in 2023, 46% 
may be able to hire in 2023; additionally, 38% are 
planning to hire in 2024. Only 16% of these organiza-
tions are concerned about further staff reductions in 
2023 and 2024.


Of those organizations that are engaging in hiring 
freezes in 2023, 41% do not anticipate addressing staff 
reductions in 2023, and 39% feel they may be able to 
hire later in 2023. While 25% of these organizations 
are concerned about potential staff reductions in 2023 
or 2024, 16% plan to hire technical staff in 2024. The 
sentiment from these organizations is that they will 
weather this storm and look forward to returning to a 
more normal approach to technical staffing.


Organizations who indicated that they would need 
to reduce technical staff were the most pessimistic. 
Still, it is important to note that only 20% of overall 
respondents1 indicated that 2023 staff reductions 
were already planned. Of the 56% of organizations 


planning to reduce staff in 2023, 35% of these orga-
nizations also said they did not anticipate anymore 
staff reductions in 2023 or 2024. 33% reported they 
might be able to hire later in 2023, and 20% were 
planning to hire in 2024.


reductions in 2023 and 2024, with some anticipating 
the possibility of technical staff reductions due to 
the economy. Others expressed confidence in their 
ability to hire technical staff later in the year or in 
2024. However, a significant portion of respondents 
reported that they do not anticipate any significant 
changes to staffing levels, indicating a relatively 
stable outlook for their organization.


1 Question41showsasamplesizeof82,whichis20%ofthe


total survey sample size of 418.


Overall, the survey results suggest that organi-
zations have mixed outlooks for hiring and staff 


 12


