FIGURE 5 
TECHNOLOGY AREA OPPORTUNITIES  
FOR GROWTH-ORIENTED ORGANIZATIONS
In which technology areas are / will you be hiring technical staff in 2023? 
[Asked if the respondent’s organization is reducing technical headcount in 2023] 
Which of the following technology areas are staffed by technical headcount? 


Cloud / Container technologies
Cybersecurity
Artiﬁcial intelligence /
Machine learning
Database and data management
Advanced analytics
and data science
Web & application development
DevOps / GitOps / DevSecOps
Networking technologies
(5G, SDN, NFV, etc.)
CI / CD & DevOps
Linux
Kubernetes
Edge computing
Blockchain


IoT & Embedded
Augmented / Virtual reality
Storage technologies
Open source hardware
Manufacturing, 3D printing,
and CAD / CAM


50%
50%


59%
58%


46%


41%


54%


48%


37%
37%


37%


33%
31%
30%


43%
41%


26%


29%
30%


23%


20%
22%
19%
24%
19%
20%
19%
22%
19%
18%
17%


20%


14%


10%


14%


Areas targeted for 2023 staﬃng increases
Areas currently staﬀed


36%


 14


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q51 (areas where hiring will occur), sample 
size = 235, valid cases = 235, total mentions = 1,195.
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q21 (areas currently staffed), sample 
size = 418, valid cases = 418, total mentions = 2,569.


Technology opportunities 
in growth-oriented 
organizations
FIGURE 5 compares the focus of organizations planning 
2023 staffing increases to the staffing focus of all orga-
nizations in the sample. There is a wealth of infor-
mation in FIGURE 5, and it warrants careful analysis.


There are two dynamics at work in FIGURE 5.
1. The first dynamic is the percent (volume) of 
organizations looking to increase technical 
staff in a technology area. 


2. The second dynamic is the priority organiza-
tions attach to hiring in a technology area. 
This priority is the ratio of organizations 
targeting an area for staff increases divided 
by the current staffing level in that area. This 
ratio is expressed as a percent—the ratios in 
FIGURE 5 range from 51% to 137%. Ratios of 
90% or above show high priority, and ratios 
of 75% or below suggest a low priority.


FIGURE 5 shows that a high volume of organizations 
are looking to add technical staff in the following 
technology areas: cloud / container technologies 
(50%), cybersecurity (50%), AI / ML (46%), database 
and data management (37%), and advanced 
analytics and data science (37%).


The leading technology areas where organizations 
prioritize hiring include augmented / virtual reality 
(137%), AI / ML (110%), blockchain (98%), CI / CD and 
DevOps (91%), and Kubernetes (90%).


