PART 2: THE UPSKILLING TREND IN 2023


KEY TAKEAWAY


According to the 2023 
State of Tech Talent Survey, 
upskilling remains an 
essential aspect of newer 
technology areas such as 
cloud / containers, cyber-
security, and AI / ML. As 
technology evolves and 
new areas emerge, the 
survey data indicates that 
continued upskilling will be 
critical for organizations to 
stay competitive in the tech 
industry. Organizations 
are adopting various 
approaches to upskill their 
employees, including 
offering training opportu-
nities and hiring new talent 
with relevant experience in 
these areas.


a significant bearing on the importance of these 
areas in the eyes of an organization. However, as 
technology areas change by + / - 2 , + / - 3, or even 
more positions, this signals a newfound increasing 
or diminishing importance of these areas to the 
organization. The information in FIGURE 5, FIGURE 6, 
and TABLE 1 provides several ways to interpret how 
technical staffing actions will play out in technology 
markets.


Over the last two years, cybersecurity has become 
an important technology area for organizations. 
TABLE 1 shows that cybersecurity was ranked #2 


in 2022 and is projected to be ranked #1 in 2023 
based on organizational plans to increase and 
decrease staff. Cybersecurity will therefore emerge 
as an important area for adding technical staff 
and a correspondingly marginal number of staff 
reductions.


Another key area is cloud / container technologies. 
Our findings show that a high percentage of organi-
zations are planning to both increase and decrease 
technical staff in this area. This is not a case of a split 
personality: cloud and containers are important 
technologies that most organizations are investing 
in. As organizations gain or lose economic ground, 
they will need to expand or contract staff. Cloud 
/ container technology, by virtue of its pervasive-
ness, qualify it as an area that will see technical staff 
changes. However, FIGURE 5 and FIGURE 6 both show 
that staff changes in clouds and containers are likely 
to be far more positive than negative.


Augmented / virtual reality (+4), AI / ML (+3), and 
Kubernetes (+3) are technology areas that are 
seeing increasing attention in 2023 because of their 
significant increase in technology area ranking. 
Augmented reality, with its smaller organizational 
footprint and high priority for both staff increases 
and decreases, will see hiring volatility. AI / ML has 
a bigger footprint, and its priority leans strongly 
toward hiring, lending it considerable stability 
as a technology opportunity for technical staff. 
Kubernetes is also uniquely positioned. Although not 
a high-volume technology area, its priority ratio is 
90% for those increasing staff and just 33% for those 
decreasing staff. This helps explain its rapid rise in 
its stack ranking.


PHOTO FROM THE LINUX FOUNDATION / KUBECON EUROPE 2023


 17


