PART 3: ADDRESSING TECH TALENT SHORTAGES IN 2023


Organizations are turning to training existing 
employees and hiring new talent to address the 
need for upskilling in these emerging areas. FIGURE 7 
shows that 71% of organizations cite hiring new IT 
professionals with experience in that new technology 
as a step taken to ensure their technical staff have 
the right skills. At the same time, 70% of organizations 


provide training opportunities for existing technical 
staff when there is an introduction of new technology.


These two approaches to addressing organiza-
tional technology needs are popular because they 
are highly effective and complementary. Hiring 
new IT professionals can be a very effective way to 


FIGURE 7 
APPROACHES TO EXPANDING AND IMPROVING AN ORGANIZATION’S 
PORTFOLIO OF TECHNOLOGY SKILLS
As new technology comes into use at your organization, what steps are you  
taking to ensure your technical staff have the right skills? segmented by 
Please estimate how many total employees are in your organization. 


Hiring new IT professionals with
experience in the new technology


Providing training opportunities
for existing technical staﬀ


Hiring consultants to support projects
and train existing technical staﬀ


Requiring additional training
for existing technical staﬀ


57%


71%


76%
73%


70%
71%


67%


77%


42%
43%
45%


29%


38%


37%


44%


32%


Total


5,000 or more employees


250-4,999 employees


1-249 employees


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q22 segmented by Q14, sample size = 417,  
valid cases = 417, DKNS responses excluded from the analysis.


 19


introduce new skills into an organization. Still, it can 
be risky given the time required to find the right 
staff and to onboard them and the high turnover 
rate if the cultural or economic fit is compromised. 
Alternatively, upskilling existing staff offers a way 
to incentivize existing staff and backfill with less 
senior staff where the supply of candidates is 
better and finding an optimal employee / employer 
fit is less complex. Taken together, these two 
approaches form the foundation of how organiza-
tions should expand and improve their portfolio of 
technology skills.


As indicated in FIGURE 7, differently sized organi-
zations favor different approaches to expanding 
and improving their portfolio of technology skills. 
Specifically:
•  Organizations with fewer than 250 employees 
focus more on training and less on new hires or 
hiring consultants.
•  Organizations with more than 5,000 employees 
are more likely to hire new IT professionals or 
hire consultants.


Importantly, most organizations, regardless of 
size, see training as a must-include approach to 
enhancing the depth and breadth of their in-house 
tech talent resources.


End-user organizations are more likely than tech 
companies to try several approaches, as shown in 
TABLE A24, with 47% requiring training compared to 
35% of tech companies and 77% providing training 
compared to 67% of tech companies.


