PART 3: ADDRESSING TECH TALENT SHORTAGES IN 2023


Expanding and 
improving organizational 
technology skills when 
candidates are scarce
Organizations face the consequences of delayed 
projects and the need to seek training for existing 
employees when they cannot find candidates with 
the requisite skills, as shown in FIGURE 8. The leading 
approach to expanding and improving organizational 


technology skills when resources are scarce is to obtain 
training for existing employees. 58% of organizations 
seek training for their existing employees when unable 
to find suitable technical candidates, up from 50% the 
previous year and a 16% growth year over year.


are cases where there is no substitute for a senior 
engineer with unique skills, this uniqueness means 
that there are fewer qualified candidates, so they are 
more difficult to find, acquire, and keep.


The second leading approach to addressing the need 
for technical skills is to continue looking until the 
discovery of a close fit. 55% of organizations in 2023 
endorse this approach, up from 41% in 2022, which 
reflects 34% growth year over year. While there 


Additionally, hiring consultants is becoming less 
popular, with only 38% of organizations choosing 
this approach in 2023, down from 48% in 2022, 
leading to a decline of 21%.


Training has become an 
important employee incentive
Based on the responses of organizations shown in 
FIGURE 9, the top incentives needed to retain technical 
headcount and prevent them from moving to another 
company in 2023 are increased salary and an oppor-
tunity for better work / life balance. Approximately 
half of the respondents chose both incentives, with 
57% indicating an increased salary as an important 
factor and 50% indicating an opportunity for better 
work / life balance. Compensation, along with work / 
life balance and training / certification continue to be 
key levers for hiring and retention.


Other incentives chosen by a significant number of 
respondents include additional training opportuni-
ties or certification (50%), an opportunity for a flexible 
work schedule or telecommuting (49%), and the oppor-
tunity to be bonus eligible (43%). The training incentive 
increased from a 40% penetration rate in 20222 to 50% 
in 2023, which equates to 25% growth year over year.


2 Source:The10thAnnualOpenSourceJobsReport,TheLinux


Foundation, June 2022.


FIGURE 8 
TRAINING IS THE LEADING METHOD TO ADDRESS THE INABILITY TO 
FIND QUALIFIED CANDIDATES
If unable to find technical candidates with the skills you need, which of the 
following best describe how you have met your organization’s requirements? 


Sought training for
existing employees


Continued to look until
we found a close ﬁt


Hired a consultant


58%


50%


55%


41%


38%


Delayed technology projects
and / or deployments


29%


19%


2023
2022


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q25, 2023 sample size = 385, valid cases = 385, total mentions = 698. 2022 sample size = 477.
In 2022, the question asked hiring managers about finding professionals with  
open source-related skills. Not all answer choices are shown in the chart. 


 20


