PART 3: ADDRESSING TECH TALENT SHORTAGES IN 2023


39% of respondents noted high recognition for 
accomplishments as a factor, while 29% expressed 
interest in the opportunity to contribute to open 
source projects they are interested in. 21% of respon-
dents chose additional stock options / RSU / equity.


Overall, the data suggests that hiring managers 
believe that offering competitive compensation and 
benefits packages and opportunities for professional 
development and work / life balance are important 
factors in retaining technical headcount. In addition, 
providing incentives such as bonus eligibility and 


recognition for accomplishments can also contribute 
to retaining talent. Finally, hiring managers feel that 
offering flexible work arrangements and the oppor-
tunity to contribute to projects of personal interest 
can be additional factors in attracting and retaining 
technical headcount.


FIGURE 9 
TRAINING / CERTIFICATION, BONUSES, AND EQUITY HAVE BECOME 
MORE PREVALENT AS EMPLOYEE RETENTION INCENTIVES
What incentives is your organization offering to deter your 
technical headcount from moving to another company? 


Increased salary


Opportunity for better work / life balance


Additional training opportunities or certiﬁcation
Opportunity for ﬂexible work
schedule or telecommuting
Opportunity to be bonus eligible


High-level recognition for accomplishments
Opportunity to contribute to open
source projects I am interested in
Additional stock options / RSU / equity


No incentives are being oﬀered at this time


2%


Other (please specify)


Don't know or not sure


1%


4%
2%


31%


29%
30%


21%


10%


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q24, 2023 sample size = 418, valid cases = 418, total mentions = 1,529.
2022 sample size = 559. Both samples are of technology hiring managers, but in 
2022, the question was focused on retaining open source talent.


57%
57%


50%


50%


49%
48%


40%


43%


39%


2023
2022


 21


KEY TAKEAWAY


The 2023 State of Tech Talent Survey 
sheds light on the difficulties orga-
nizations encounter when hiring 
technical talent in a highly compet-
itive labor market. It is evident that 
although there is a high demand for 
skilled technical professionals, the 
availability of labor remains severely 
limited, and there is no immediate 
solution in sight. Organizations cannot 
solely rely on hiring to solve the tech 
talent shortage. Alternative strategies, 
such as upskilling existing employees 
and offering better salaries, work / life 
balance, and opportunities to work on 
open-source projects, will be critical 
for organizations aiming to attract and 
retain top talent.


