PART 4: RECRUITMENT AND ONBOARDING PROCESSES CREATE CHALLENGES IN 2023


Upskilling emerges as 
the best way to cope with 
a difficult situation
84% of those responsible for hiring tech talent agree 
(strongly agree and somewhat agree) that there is 
a need for a streamlined way to recruit new tech-
nical staff with proven skills, as shown in FIGURE 10. 
Additionally, 78% agree that hiring the wrong candidate 


and onboarding again is an issue. In comparison, 64% 
agree that recruitment is costly and time-consuming 
and often does not lead to the right candidate. 
64% agree that onboarding takes valuable internal 
resources away from other critical projects for too long.


Upskilling does have its challenges. While 55% of 
organizations agree that upskilling can help fill a 
new position, often the need to backfill remains. 
Fortunately, hiring a junior person is nearly always 


easier than hiring a senior person. 47% of orga-
nizations state that upskilling takes too long or is 
ineffective at training for complex roles, but it is 
noteworthy that 39% of organizations disagree 
with this statement. Finally, 47% of organizations 
agree that upskilling is not well suited for teaching 
broad subject matter. 31% of organizations disagree 
with this last statement, and it is inappropriate to 
expect that upskilling is an alternative to college or 
advanced degrees.


FIGURE 10 
UPSKILLING IS THE BEST WAY TO COPE WITH A DIFFICULT SITUATION
What are your perspectives on upskilling, recruiting, onboarding, and retaining technical staff? 


There is a need for a streamlined
way to recruit new technical
staﬀ with proven skills
Hiring the wrong candidate and then
having to onboard again is an issue


Recruitment is costly, time-consuming,
and often does not lead to the
right candidate for the position
Onboarding takes valuable internal
resources away from other critical
projects and is time-consuming
Upskilled staﬀ doesn't help us to
ﬁll new positions because we still have
to backﬁll for the positions vacated


Upskilling takes too long or is
ineﬀective at training for complex roles


Upskilling doesn't work for senior
roles because you can't teach
broad subject matter expertise


45%


41%


39%


12% 3%


37%


12%


6%


3%


1%
1%
2%


31%


27%


24%


25%


21%


33%


37%


14%


14%


6%


1%


19%


11%


5%


31%


18%


19%


6%


1%


22%


26%


15%


25%


13%


1%


20%


22%


9%


2%


Strongly agree


Somewhat agree


Neither disagree nor agree


Somewhat disagree


Strongly disagree


Don't know or not sure


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q26, Q27, sample size = 418.


 23


