PART 4: RECRUITMENT AND ONBOARDING PROCESSES CREATE CHALLENGES IN 2023


3 months. The average across all organizations is an 
onboarding process that takes 2.6 months.


The chart on the right in FIGURE 12 shows employee 
departures, be they voluntary or involuntary. 38% of 
organizations lose 0 to 10% of their new hires within 
4 to 6 months. While these percentages trend down 
as departures grow, the overall average is somewhat 
high at 29%. Almost one out of three new hires 
departs within six months of being onboarded. 


This is an astoundingly high metric and indicates 
that conventional approaches to recruiting and 
onboarding are not working. Considering that 
the average recruiting time is 4.3 months, and 
onboarding takes an average of 2.6 months, you 
will need to replace one out of three after an 8 to 
13-month investment in each of your new hires.


Recruiting and hiring the right candidate has proven 
a costly, time-consuming, and often ineffective 


PHOTO BY DESOLA LANRE-OLOGUN ON UNSPLASH


 26


process for many organizations. Therefore, organi-
zations must ensure employees have the necessary 
skills to succeed in the rapidly changing technology 
landscape. Training and certifying existing staff are 
crucial to address the ever-increasing demand for 
technical expertise.


KEY TAKEAWAY


Successful recruiting and onboarding 
can be challenging, requiring significant 
resources and time. However, upskilling 
is a surprisingly effective solution 
to potential obstacles in the process. 
Upskilling and certification programs 
can address the technical talent 
shortage. These programs can verify 
technical skills developed by internal 
candidates through pre-placement 
testing and certification. Effective 
onboarding and upskilling are highly 
valued and essential for success. While 
smaller companies may be less likely to 
invest in these programs, it is crucial to 
recognize their value in ensuring that 
technical staff possess the necessary 
skills to thrive in an increasingly tech-
driven business environment.


