PART 5: THE INCREASED NEED TO TRAIN AND CERTIFY EXISTING STAFF IN 2023


Certifications and technical skill verification 
will improve the hiring process
There is a strong desire among respondents 
for certification and pre-employment testing to 
verify technical skills, as shown in FIGURE 13. 81% 
agree (strongly agree and somewhat agree) that 
pre-employment testing should be a requirement. 
Pre-employment testing, especially scenario or case 
study testing, is an effective way to validate that the 
candidate has a portfolio of relevant skills for the 
role they are applying for.


73% of those hiring tech talent agree that certifi-
cations should be a requirement to verify claimed 
technical skills. Certifications are proof points of 
demonstrable validation of knowledge on specific 
subject areas, such as secure software development. 
Certifications provide a proactive way for candi-
dates to demonstrate alignment with a role and can 
help mitigate the pressure and risks associated with 
pre-employment testing.


PHOTO FROM THE LINUX FOUNDATION / KUBECON EUROPE 2023


FIGURE 13 
TESTING AND CERTIFICATION ARE WAYS TO VERIFY TECHNICAL SKILLS AND STREAMLINE HIRING
What is your perspective on recruiting, onboarding, and retaining technical staff? 


Pre-employment testing should 
be required to verify claimed 
technical skills


Not all tech talent is the 
same—they do not have a common 
benchmark of skills, methodologies, 
and approaches


Certiﬁcations should be required to 
verify claimed technical skills
With all the recent tech talent 
layoﬀs, it's now easier to identify 
great candidates


43%


40%


40%


38%


12% 4%


1%
1%


39%


14%


5% 2%


1%


33%


15%


7%


4%


2%


27%


34%


23%


4%


2%


11%


Strongly agree


Somewhat agree Neither disagree nor agree


Somewhat disagree


Strongly disagree


Don't know or not sure


2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q27, sample size = 418.


 28


