PART 5: THE INCREASED NEED TO TRAIN AND CERTIFY EXISTING STAFF IN 2023


develop critical thinking and decision-making 
skills, training and certification are unparalleled at 
teaching and validating domain-specific skills.


Upskilling is now the primary approach organizations 
use to expand and improve technology skills 
Upskilling and certifications are highly valued, as 
shown in FIGURE 14. 91% of organizations believe 
that upskilling to expand or improve IT staff tech-
nical skills are either extremely important or very 
important. 77% of organizations indicate that 
certified skills are important, which follows because 
certification is a way to validate training. Surprisingly, 
58% of organizations consider a college or university 
degree important. While college and university 
degrees are instrumental in helping individuals 


As covered in the earlier section on addressing tech 
talent shortages (FIGURE 7), investing in upskilling 
and certification opportunities can be cost-effec-
tive for small companies, helping to ensure that 
existing staff possess the necessary skills to thrive in 
a rapidly changing technology landscape.


PHOTO FROM THE LINUX FOUNDATION / KUBECON EUROPE 2023


FIGURE 14 
UPSKILLING AND CERTIFICATIONS ARE HIGHLY VALUED AND  
MORE IMPORTANT THAN A TRADITIONAL UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
How important are the following approaches to addressing your organization’s technology needs? 
2023 Tech Talent Survey, Q23, sample size = 418.


Upskilling existing IT staﬀ to
acquire the skills and knowledge
your organization needs


Hiring and onboarding
new talent that have the IT
skills your organization needs


That technical candidates have
skills that are certiﬁed
That the candidate has a
college or university degree


53%


49%


38%


7%


1%


39%


11%


1%


41%


36%


17%


3%


3%


1%


30%


28%


30%


9%


3%


Extremely important


Very important


Somewhat important


Not very important


Not important at all


Don't know or not sure


 29


