About the authors
With over 25 years of experience in the information technology industry, Jason Perlow is a seasoned systems architect, 
technology strategist, and technical writer and has worked with leading companies such as IBM, Microsoft, Unisys, and 
NTT Data. He serves as Editorial Director at the Linux Foundation, leading content writing and external communications 
for Linux Foundation Projects and Research. Jason has authored several Linux Foundation Research reports, including the 
8th, 9th, and 10th annual Linux Foundation Jobs Reports and the 2022 Mentorship in Open Source Report. Additionally, 
Jason was the founding Sr. Technology Editor of Linux Magazine, covering the formation of the Linux Foundation, and had 
an op-ed technology column on ZDNET for 15 years, from 2008 to 2023.


Stephen Hendrick is Vice President of Research at the Linux Foundation, where he is the principal investigator on a variety 
of research projects core to the Linux Foundation’s understanding of how open source software is an engine of innova-
tion for producers and consumers of information technology. Steve specializes in primary research techniques developed 
over 30 years as a software industry analyst. Steve is a subject matter expert in application development and deployment 
topics, including DevOps, application management, and decision analytics. Steve brings experience in a variety of quan-
titative and qualitative research techniques that enable deep insight into market dynamics and has pioneered research 
across many application development and deployment domains. Steve has authored over 1,000 publications and provided 
market guidance through syndicated research and custom consulting to the world’s leading software vendors and 
high-profile startups.


Acknowledgments
Special thanks to Linux Foundation colleagues Hilary Carter, Lawrence Hecht, Stephen Hendrick, Anna Hermansen, 
Christina Oliviero, Scott Punk, Melissa Schmidt, Mary Simpkins, and Clyde Seepersad for your contributions to and in 
support of this research project.


 69


