## Mentorships and their impact on succession and diversity within open source

### Improving diversity

Ensuring project health is not just about attracting new developers to replace the old; it's also about improving diversity in the open source community to make it more representative of the
world. The code submitted to the projects themselves reflects this, where different perspectives worldwide contribute unique features that make the project relevant on a broader scale. Khan
provides an example of this from the perspective of energy conservation. She says, “We have kernel patches to improve power management on devices to help users from places like Africa and Southeast Asia, where they don't have as widespread access to charging infrastructure (for their laptops and mobile phones) as the rest of the world. They might not even have 24/7 electricity, which might be a luxury.
California residents now realize they need backups with the wildfires they have been experiencing recently. So, these patches help conserve energy so that applications aren’t power hogs; this is
critical to companies that sell products in these areas of the world. Different viewpoints come from diverse experiences, and open source software expresses their needs. We call this scratching our
own itch, which results in unique features that benefit us all. That’s where diversity of thought comes into play.”

Although the program is open to everyone by design, the LF has focused on getting more women and other underrepresented groups involved in LFX Mentorship programs.

“We are trying to reach out to groups historically underrepresented within the open source community,” said Khan. “We did a big push, for example, to Black colleges and Hispanic colleges in the summer
of 2021 to raise awareness, as a part-time program, to give them the flexibility to work from anywhere, and we are expanding that globally. We don’t require participants to be just students, either. When
we say we are inclusive, we don’t say this will be just for women, LGBTQ+, or any particular denomination or group. We say this applies to anybody who wants to get involved with open source but
does not know how to get started. So far, these are how our efforts have been, and we’ve seen more women participate. But it could be better. We have consistently improved our numbers since the
program's inception in 2019. Our participation from women sits at 20% compared to 17% in 2019.”

Kate Stewart, vice president of dependable systems at the LF, is passionate about bringing new talent and participants into open source projects. In fact, mentorship programs have been instrumental
in recruiting new maintainers and advancing projects without direct funding, such as SPDX (Software Package Data Exchange). According to Stewart, “My involvement in mentorship programs began with the SPDX
side from the Google Summer of Code. Way back when the project started, this was the only way we were able to make forward progress on some of our tools.”

### A learning experience for mentees (and mentors)

Mentorship programs can be helpful for both the mentee and the mentor. Mentees can benefit from having someone to look up to and learn from. As Khan notes, mentors can benefit from the satisfaction
of helping others grow and develop and introduce them to new approaches to software development. She adds, “Mentors could be locked into a way of doing things, as they have
been in their role as maintainers for a very long time. So, when somebody new comes in and tries something new, you look at that new approach and go, oh! That makes sense; that’s another way to
do things. So, the mentors themselves learn from mentoring. When I’m looking at patches for analysis sent from mentees who are fixing bugs, I am looking at different parts of the kernel that I am not
familiar with in some cases. And sometimes, I need to go deep and understand what I am looking at before I can answer the questions from mentees in these areas, so it’s beneficial to me.”

The design of the kernel’s mentorship program helps new developers familiarize themselves with the kernel development process and provide them with guidance and support from more experienced
developers. The program is also open to established developers who want to contribute to the kernel but need help with the process. Working with an experienced maintainer can inspire
mentees to become maintainers themselves. As one mentee told us, “Due to the mentorship program, I was able to understand the mindset of the maintainers … and I would happily take the responsibility
of maintaining a project if anyone offers me the opportunity.” 

Mentors can teach new developers about the culture and customs of the open source community, as well as the technical aspects of working on open source projects. They may offer guidance
and support while also being a source of inspiration for innovative concepts. In addition, mentorship programs can help build relationships between people of different ages, experiences, and
backgrounds. Khan explains, “One big reason it’s fulfilling is that this makes a difference in people’s lives. That little bit of encouragement, that little bit of lift, and having access to a mentor they can talk to and ask, is my
patch good? Or is my communication good on this email list? Or even how we can help them respond to an upstream email conversation. As a mentor, I might ask that they pose specific questions
upstream for effective communication. Or the mentee might say to me that the maintainer hasn’t responded to their patch. I can then say, as a mentor, give them more time to respond. Having someone
who can watch over you and be an advocate is a big help when you are getting started in open source; it makes you more confident in understanding how the communication dynamic works.”

As Kate Stewart says, a maintainer requires a unique combination of technical skills and relationship management. “There is a recognition that the maintainership tasks are different
than the coding tasks. Many people like to code, but this is a different set of skills. You have to understand the technical skills to be an effective maintainer, but you also have to have a lot more
social intelligence. Code is easy. People are hard. Maintainership is about people management.”

Mentorship can also be a fulfilling experience for retired people who can pass on their expertise to the next generation of programmers to stay active in the technology industry. Stewart
discusses the individuals she recruits in former executive roles at major corporations to act as mentors: “Many experienced people are retiring—so how do we keep them
engaged? These folks have a lot of skills, so how do they pass them on, and how can it become something they enjoy doing? A friend of mine is a couple of years older than me, and he retired from NXP.
He’s sitting around at home, puttering around. And I am saying to myself, how can I lure him into working on some open source projects? It’s rewarding and effective for people who have had a full
career, don’t want to do a full-time job, but still want to keep their hand in things and be effective.”

### Confidence building

While any community needs some form of guidance and support for its members, this is especially true in the open source world. The development of open source software presents unique challenges.
Volunteers often develop it, and they may not have professional experience. This also influences their desire to engage in open source in the first place, as expressed by 100 LFX Mentorship
mentees surveyed in 2022. FIGURE 3 shows almost two-thirds of mentees lacked some confidence in their ability to engage in open source before they joined the program.

One of the positive outcomes of surveying mentees was the reported increase in confidence that mentorship programs create. FIGURE 4 shows that 90% of mentees report increased confidence
compared to their level before starting the program. 

Qualitative interviews confirmed these results. One mentee interviewed from the Linux kernel project said they decided to join the program to level up their technical skills but also gained confidence
in communicating with the community for help and advice. They explained, “I found that the kernel community was extremely patient with me… as I dealt with the fact that I need to accept help, suggestions,
and advice.”

Another mentee from CNCF shared a similar reflection on their increased confidence because of the program: “I believe my ability to explain myself or to present myself has
increased … now, whenever I face a problem, I just publicly go on Slack, and I just say I’m facing issues.”

Mentorship can provide these individuals with the skills and knowledge to succeed. Khan elaborates, “Mentees are getting direct access to experts in those projects
and benefiting from the experience of maintainers. They get a one-on-one meeting with the maintainers and experts. They can bounce ideas off of mentors before submitting their upstream
contributions. That’s a huge confidence-building factor.

So, for example, with the 13 mentees I mentored this last summer, some of the questions they asked me were interesting, such as, was our community open? If we send patches, will you review them? And
they ask other development questions, such as the length of the development processes of particular vendors, the ideal time to send patches, how long it takes for a maintainer to review the patches,
etc. All of these are questions that come up in one-on-one conversations. They have to sort through a lot of information as part of being a contributor to an open source project, and sifting through
that is hard for them. So, when they have one-on-one relationships with mentors, it helps.”

### Community building through mentorship

Mentorship can also help to foster a sense of community within the open source world. By providing guidance and support, mentors can help to create an environment where people feel welcome and
valued. This, in turn, can encourage more people to participate in open source projects, which can only serve to improve the quality of the software produced. As one mentee told us, “Apart from the technical skills I picked up from my mentorship
project, I also learned the art of communicating technical ideas with like-minded people … I could convey my ideas properly, and even though I was just expecting clarifications on what I should not
implement, I received a lot of support from the community to kickstart my first open source project.” 

When thinking about how mentorship programs benefit open source, it’s important to consider other intangibles in addition to bringing in new developer blood and how they address diversity
issues. Khan states it’s not simply a balance sheet: “Bringing in new developers and training them is obvious, right? When new developers come in, they bring in a new point of view,
injecting relevant new ideas like when companies hire new people. 

Similarly, teaching open source philosophy and the importance of open source early on, in the early part of their careers, will be beneficial to them. It’s also beneficial to have more trained open source
developers—they come in and already understand the ecosystem, and part of our training helps them understand that ecosystem. All of that is beneficial—it all comes back to the question of the
benefits of open source in the first place. So, it’s hard to prove the bottom line. Training and mentoring new developers are part of that bottom line—all this time and money I spend is not a balance
sheet. It’s an intangible benefit that you cannot prove. Yes, it’s beneficial, but you cannot put a dollar amount on it.”

By completing the mentorship program, mentees are subject to the inner workings of creating and maintaining open source projects. This exposure inspires them to continue contributing to
projects. As one mentee said, “I have been actively contributing to open-source ever since.” Another mentee shared how their experience supporting a new project during the program made them
confident in starting their own projects: “After graduating from the program, I went on to start my own open source projects in the JuliaLang community. I had seen the
ins and outs of project ideation to the completion of an industry- grade software feature. I was confident enough that I could start working on my own project to attract open source contributions
someday.”

The LFX Mentorship program can claim a high success rate as to the disposition of mentees toward open source contribution post-graduation. Eighty-five percent of mentees are or are willing
to continue contributing to the project they were involved in after mentorship, as illustrated in FIGURE 5.

“ After graduating from the program, I went on to start my own open source projects in the JuliaLang community. ... I was confident enough that I could start working on my
own project to attract open source contributions someday.”
