
[]{#_bookmark205 .anchor}**CHAPTER 16**

WHEN THE LETTER COMES

Unfortunately, many GPL violators ignore their obligations until they
are contacted by a copyright holder or the lawyer of a copyright
holder. You should certainly contact your own lawyer if you have
received a letter alleging that you have infringed copyrights that
were licensed to you under the GPL. This section outlines a typical
enforcement case and provides some guidelines for response. These
discussions are generalizations and do not all apply to every alleged
violation. However, COGEO's in particular universally follow the
processes described herein.

## Communication Is Key

GPL violations are typically only escalated when a company ignores the
copyright holder's initial commu- nication or fails to work toward
timely compliance. Accused violators should respond very promptly to
the initial request. As the process continues, violators should follow
up weekly with the copyright holders to make sure everyone agrees on
targets and deadlines for resolving the situation.

Ensure that any staff who might receive communications regarding
alleged GPL violations understands how to channel the communication
appropriately within your organization. Often, initial contact is
addressed for general correspondence (e.g., by mail to corporate
headquarters or by e-mail to general informational or support-related
addresses). Train the staff that processes such communications to
escalate them to someone with authority to take action. An uninformed
response to such an inquiry (e.g., from a first-level technical
support person) can cause negotiations to fail prematurely.

Answer promptly by multiple means (paper letter, telephone call, and
email), even if your response merely notifies the sender that you are
investigating the situation and will respond by a certain date. Do not
let the conversation lapse until the situation is fully resolved.
Proactively follow up with synchronous communication means to be sure
communications sent by non-reliable means (such as email) were
received. Remember that the software freedom community generally
values open communication and cooperation, and these values extend to
GPL enforcement. You will generally find that software freedom
developers and their lawyers are willing to have a reasonable dialogue
and will work with you to resolve a violation once

you open the channels of communication in a friendly way.

Furthermore, if the complaint comes from a COGEO, assume they are
well-prepared. COGEO's fully investigate compliance issues before
raising the issue. The claims and concerns will be substantiated, and
immediate denials will likely lead the COGEO to suspect malice rather
than honest mistake.

However, the biggest and most perennial mistake that all COGEOs see
during enforcement is this: failure to include the violators' software
development teams in the enforcement discussions and negotiations. As
described above, CCS verification and approval is the most
time-consuming and difficult part of resolving most compliance
matters. Without direct contact between software developers on both
sides, the resolution of the technical issues involved in
demonstrating that the binary distributed was built from the source

provided is likely to be tortuous, expensive, and tense. Your lawyers
will certainly be understandably reluctant to expose your employees to
direct inquiry from potentially adverse parties. However, facilitated
exchanges of information among software engineers communicating on
technical subjects shortens the time to resolution, substantially
reduces the cost of reaching resolution, and prevents unnecessary
escalation due to mutual misunderstanding. Furthermore, such frank
technical discussion will often be the only way to avoid compliance
litigation once a violation has occurred.

Fortunately, these frank discussions will improve your company's
relationships. Free Software develop- ment communities improve
software to benefit everyone, which includes you and your company.
When you use copylefted community software in your products, you are
part of that community. Therefore, resolv- ing a compliance matter is
an occasion to strengthen your relationship to the community, by
increasing communication between your developers and the project whose
work you use for business benefit.

## Termination

Many redistributors overlook the GPL's termination provision (GPLv2 4
and GPLv3 8). Under v2, violators forfeit their rights to redistribute
and modify the GPL'd software until those rights are explicitly
reinstated by the copyright holder. In contrast, v3 allows violators
to rapidly resolve some violations without consequence.

If you have redistributed an application under
GPLv2[^1^](#_bookmark208), but have violated the terms of GPLv2, you
must request a reinstatement of rights from the copyright holders
before making further distributions, or else cease distribution and
modification of the software forever. Different copyright holders
condition reinstatement upon different requirements, and these
requirements can be (and often are) wholly independent of the GPL. The
terms of your reinstatement will depend upon what you negotiate with
the copyright holder of the GPL'd program.

Since your rights under GPLv2 terminate automatically upon your
initial violation, *all your subsequent distributions* are violations
and infringements of copyright. Therefore, even if you resolve a
violation on your own, you must still seek a reinstatement of rights
from the copyright holders whose licenses you violated, lest you
remain liable for infringement for even compliant distributions made
subsequent to the initial violation.

GPLv3 is more lenient. If you have distributed only v3-licensed
programs, you may be eligible under v3 *ยง* 8 for automatic
reinstatement of rights. You are eligible for automatic reinstatement
when:

you correct the violation and are not contacted by a copyright holder
about the violation within sixty days after the correction, or

you receive, from a copyright holder, your first-ever contact
regarding a GPL violation, and you correct that violation within
thirty days of receipt of copyright holder's notice.

In addition to these permanent reinstatements provided under v3,
violators who voluntarily correct their violation also receive
provisional permission to continue distributing until they receive
contact from the copyright holder. If sixty days pass without contact,
that reinstatement becomes permanent. Nonetheless, you should be
prepared to cease distribution during those initial sixty days should
you receive a termination notice from the copyright holder.

Given that much discussion of v3 has focused on its so-called more
complicated requirements, it should be noted that v3 is, in this
regard, more favorable to violators than v2.

However, note that most Linux-based systems typically include some
software licensed under GPLv2-only, and thus the copyright holders
have withheld permission to redistribute under terms of GPLv3. In
larger aggregate distributions which include GPLv2-only works (such as
the kernel named Linux), redistributors must operate as if termination
is immediate and permanent, since the technological remove of
GPLv2-only works from the larger distribution requires much more
engineering work than the negotiation required to seek restoration of
rights for distribution under GPLv2-only after permanent termination.

^1^[]{#_bookmark208 .anchor}This applies to all programs licensed to
you under only GPLv2 ("GPLv2-only"). However, most so-called GPLv2
programs are actually distributed with permission to redistribute
under GPLv2 *or any later version of the GPL* ("GPLv2-or-later"). In
the latter cases, the redistributor can choose to redistribute under
GPLv2, GPLv3, GPLv2-or-later or even GPLv3-or-later. Where the
redistributor has chosen v2 explicitly, the v2 termination provision
will always apply. If the redistributor has chosen v3, the v3
termination provision will always apply. If the redistributor has
chosen GPLv2-or-later, then the redistributor may want to narrow to
GPLv3-only upon violation, to take advantage of the termination
provisions in v3.

