
## CHAPTER 5 MODIFIED SOURCE AND BINARY DISTRIBUTION

In this chapter, we discuss the two core sections that define the rights and obligations for those who modify, improve, and/or redistribute GPL'd software. These sections, GPLv2 2--3, define the central core rights and requirements of GPLv2.

### GPLv2 §2: Share and Share Alike

For many, this is where the "magic" happens that defends software freedom upon redistribution. GPLv2 2 is the only place in GPLv2 that governs the modification controls of copyright law. If users distribute modified versions a GPLv2'd program, they must follow the terms of GPLv2 2 in making those changes. Thus, this sections ensures that the body of GPL'd software, as it continues and develops, remains Free as in freedom. To achieve that goal, GPLv2 2 first sets forth that the rights of redistribution of modified versions are the same as those for verbatim copying, as presented in GPLv2 1. Therefore, the details of charging money, keeping copyright notices intact, and other GPLv2 1 provisions are intact here as well. However, there are three additional requirements.

#### The Simpler Parts of GPLv2 §2

The first (GPLv2 2(a)) requires that modified files carry "prominent notices" explaining what changes were made and the date of such changes. This section does not prescribe some specific way of marking changes nor does it control the process of how changes are made. Primarily, GPLv2 2(a) seeks to ensure that those receiving modified versions know the history of changes to the software. For some users, it is important to know that they are using the standard version of program, because while there are many advantages to using a fork, there are a few disadvantages. Users should be informed about the historical context of the software version they use, so that they can make proper support choices. Finally, GPLv2 2(a) serves an academic purpose --- ensuring that future developers can use a diachronic approach to understand the software.

GPLv2 2(c), a relatively simple section, requires that any program which (before modification) "normally reads commands interactively when run" and displays or prints legal information also display all copyright notices, warranty disclaimer, modification indications and a pointer to the license, even in modified versions. The requirement is relatively simple, and relates to an important policy goal of copyleft: downstream users should be informed of their rights. Its implications and details are straightforward and simple.

#### GPLv2 §2(b)

Meanwhile, GPLv2 2(b) requires careful and extensive study. Its four short lines embody the some of the essential legal details of "share and share alike". These 46 words are considered by some to be the most worthy of careful scrutiny because they can be a source of great confusion when not properly understood. In considering GPLv2 2(b), first note the qualifier: it *only* applies to derivative, combined and/or modified works that "you distribute or publish". Despite years of education efforts on this matter, many still believe that modifiers of GPL'd software *must* publish or otherwise share their changes. On the contrary, GPLv2 2(b) **does not apply if** the changes are never distributed. Indeed, the freedom to make private, personal, unshared changes to software for personal use only should be protected and defended.[^1^](#_bookmark60)

Next, we again encounter the same matter that appears in GPLv2 *§*0, in the following text:
>"\...that in whole or part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof."

Again, the GPL relies here on copyright law. If, under copyright law, the modified version "contains or is derived from" the GPL'd software, then the requirements of GPLv2 2(b) apply. The GPL invokes its control as a copyright license over the modification of the work in combination with its control over distribution of the work.

The final clause of GPLv2 2(b) describes what the licensee must do if she distributes or publishes a modified version of the work --- namely, the following:

>\[The work must\] be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

That is probably the most tightly-packed phrase in all of the GPL. Consider each subpart carefully.

The work "as a whole" is what is to be licensed. This is an important point that GPLv2 2 spends an entire paragraph explaining; thus this phrase is worthy of a lengthy discussion here. As a programmer modifies a software program, she generates new copyrighted material --- fixing expressions of ideas into the tangible medium of electronic file storage. That programmer is indeed the copyright holder of those new changes. However, those changes are part and parcel to the original work distributed to the programmer under GPL. Thus, the license of the original work affects the license of the new whole combined and/or derivative work.

It is certainly possible to take an existing independent work (called) and combine it with a GPL'd program (called ). The license of , when it is distributed as a separate and independent work, remains the prerogative of the copyright holder of . However, when is combined with , it produces a new work that is the combination of the two (called + ). The copyright of this combined work, + , is held by the original copyright holder of each of the two works.

In this case, GPLv2 2 lays out the terms by which + may be distributed and copied. By default, under copyright law, the copyright holder of would not have been permitted to distribute + ; copyright law forbids it without the expressed permission of the copyright holder of . (Imagine, for a moment, if were a proprietary product --- would its copyright holders give you permission to create and distribute + without paying them a hefty sum?) The license of , the GPL, states the options for the copyright holder of who may want to create and distribute + . The GPL's pre-granted permission to create and distribute combined and/or derivative works, provided the terms of the GPL are upheld, goes far above and beyond the permissions that one would get with a typical work not covered by a copyleft license. Thus, to say that this condition is any way unreasonable is simply ludicrous.

The GPL recognizes what is outside its scope. When a programmer's work is "separate and independent" from any GPL'd program code with which it could be combined, then the obligations of copyleft do not extend to the work separately distributed. Thus, Far from attempting to extend copyleft beyond the scope of copyright, the licenses explicitly recognize.

Thus, GPL recognizes what is outside its scope. When a programmer's work is "separate and inde- pendent" from any GPL'd program code with which it could be combined, then copyleft obligations do not extend to the independent work separately distributed. Thus, far from attempting to extend copyleft beyond the scope of copyright, GPL explicitly limits the scope of copyleft to the scope of copyright.

^1^[]{#_bookmark60 .anchor}Most Free Software enthusiasts believe there is a **moral** obligation to redistribute changes that are generally useful, and they often encourage companies and individuals to do so. However, there is a clear distinction between what one **ought** to do and what one **must** do.

GPL does not, however (as is sometimes suggested) distinguish "dynamic" from "static" linking of pro- gram code. It is occasionally suggested that a subroutine "dynamically" linked to GPL'd code is, by virtue of the linking alone, inherently outside the scope of copyleft on the main work. This is a misunderstanding. When two software components are joined together to make one work (whether a main and some library subroutines, two objects with their respective methods, or a program and a "plugin") the combination infringes the copyright on the components if the combination required copyright permission from the com- ponent copyright holders, as such permission was either not available or was available on terms that were not observed.

In other words, when combining other software with GPL'd components, the only available permission is GPL. The combiner must observe and respect the GPL observed on the combination as a whole. It matters not if that combination is made with a linker before distribution of the executable, is made by the operating system in order to share libraries for execution efficiency at runtime, or results from runtime references in the language at runtime (as in Java programs).

The next phrase of note in GPLv2 2(b) is "licensed . . . at no charge." This phrase confuses many. The sloppy reader points out this as "a contradiction in GPL" because (in their confused view) that clause of GPLv2 2 says that re-distributors cannot charge for modified versions of GPL'd software, but GPLv2 1 says that they can. Avoid this confusion: the "at no charge" **does not** prohibit re-distributors from charging when performing the acts governed by copyright law,[^2^](#_bookmark62) but rather that they cannot charge a fee for the *license itself*. In other words, redistributors of (modified and unmodified) GPL'd works may charge any amount they choose for performing the modifications on contract or the act of transferring the copy to the customer, but they may not charge a separate licensing fee for the software.

GPLv2 2(b) further states that the software must "be licensed . . . to all third parties." This too yields some confusion, and feeds the misconception mentioned earlier --- that all modified versions must be made available to the public at large. However, the text here does not say that. Instead, it says that the licensing under terms of the GPL must extend to anyone who might, through the distribution chain, receive a copy of the software. Distribution to all third parties is not mandated here, but GPLv2 2(b) does require re- distributors to license the whole work in a way that extends to all third parties who may ultimately receive a copy of the software.

In summary, GPLv2 2(b) says what terms under which the third parties must receive this no-charge license. Namely, they receive it "under the terms of this License", the GPLv2. When an entity *chooses* to redistribute a work based on GPL'd software, the license of that whole work must be GPL and only GPL. In this manner, GPLv2 *§*2(b) dovetails nicely with GPLv2 *§*6 (as discussed in Section [7.3](#gplv2-6-gpl-my-one-and-only) of this tutorial).

The final paragraph of GPLv2 2 is worth special mention. It is possible and quite common to aggregate various software programs together on one distribution medium. Computer manufacturers do this when they ship a pre-installed hard drive, and GNU/Linux distribution vendors do this to give a one-stop CD or URL for a complete operating system with necessary applications. The GPL very clearly permits such "mere aggregation" with programs under any license. Despite what you hear from its critics, the GPL is nothing like a virus, not only because the GPL is good for you and a virus is bad for you, but also because simple contact with a GPL'd code-base does not impact the license of other programs. A programmer must expend actual effort to cause a work to fall under the terms of the GPL. Redistributors are always welcome to simply ship GPL'd software alongside proprietary software or other unrelated Free Software, as long as the terms of GPL are adhered to for those packages that are truly GPL'd.

#### Right to Private Modification

The issue of private modifications of GPLv2'd works deserves special attention. While these rights are clearly explicit in GPLv3 2 2 (see [9.4](#gplv3-2-basic-permissions) of this tutorial for details), the permission to create private modifications is mostly implicit in GPLv2. Most notably, the requirements of GPLv2 2 (and GPLv2 3, which will be discussed next) are centered around two different copyright controls: both modification *and* distribution. As such, GPLv2 2's requirements need only be met when a modified version is distributed; one need not follow them for modified versions that are not distributed.[^3^](#_bookmark65)

^2^[]{#_bookmark62 .anchor}Recall that you could by default charge for any acts not governed by copyright law, because the license controls are confined by copyright.

However, the careful reader of GPLv2 will notice that, unlike GPLv3, no other clauses of the license actually give explicit permission to make private modifications. Since modification of software is a control governed by copyright, a modifier needs permission from the copyright holder to engage in that activity.

In practice, however, traditional GPLv2 interpretation has always assumed that blanket permission to create non-distributed modified versions was available, and the [FSF has long opined that distribution of](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#GPLRequireSourcePostedPublic) [modified versions is never mandatory.](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#GPLRequireSourcePostedPublic) This issue is one of many where GPLv3 clarifies in explicit text the implicit policy and intent that was solidified via long-standing interpretation of GPLv2.

### GPLv2 §3: Producing Binaries

Software is a strange beast when compared to other copyrightable works. It is currently impossible to make a film or a book that can be truly obscured. Ultimately, the full text of a novel, even one written by William Faulkner, must be presented to the reader as words in some human-readable language so that they can enjoy the work. A film, even one directed by David Lynch, must be perceptible by human eyes and ears to have any value.

Software is not so. While the source code --- the human-readable representation of software --- is of keen interest to programmers, users and programmers alike cannot make the proper use of software in that human-readable form. Binary code --- the ones and zeros that the computer can understand --- must be predicable and attainable for the software to be fully useful. Without the binaries, be they in object or executable form, the software serves only the didactic purposes of computer science.

Under copyright law, binary representations of the software are simply modified versions (and/or deriva- tive works) of the source code. Applying a systematic process (i.e., "compilation"[^4^](#_bookmark66)) to a work of source code yields binary code. The binary code is now a new work of expression fixed in the tangible medium of electronic file storage.

Therefore, for GPL'd software to be useful, the GPL, since it governs the rules for creation of modified works, must grant permission for the generation of binaries. Furthermore, notwithstanding the relative popularity of source-based GNU/Linux distributions like Gentoo, users find it extremely convenient to receive distribution of binary software. Such distribution is the redistribution of modified works of the software's source code. GPLv2 3 addresses the matter of creation and distribution of binary versions.

Under GPLv2 3, binary versions may be created and distributed under the terms of GPLv2 1--2, so all the material previously discussed applies here. However, GPLv2 3 must go a bit further. Access to the software's source code is an incontestable prerequisite for the exercise of the fundamental freedoms to modify and improve the software. Making even the most trivial changes to a software program at the binary level is effectively impossible. GPLv2 3 must ensure that the binaries are never distributed without the source code, so that these freedoms are passed through the distribution chain.

GPLv2 3 permits distribution of binaries, and then offers three options for distribution of source code along with binaries. The most common and the least complicated is the option given under GPLv2 3(a).

GPLv2 3(a) offers the option to directly accompany the source code alongside the distribution of the binaries. This is by far the most convenient option for most distributors, because it means that the source- code provision obligations are fully completed at the time of binary distribution (more on that later).

#### Complete, Corresponding Source (CCS)

Under GPLv2 3(a), the source code provided must be the "corresponding source code." Here "correspond- ing" primarily means that the source code provided must be that code used to produce the binaries being distributed. That source code must also be "complete". GPLv2 3's penultimate paragraph explains in de- tail what is meant by "complete". In essence, it is all the material that a programmer of average skill would need to actually use the source code to produce the binaries she has received. Complete source is required so that, if the licensee chooses, she should be able to exercise her freedoms to modify and redistribute changes. Without the complete source, it would not be possible to make changes that were actually directly derived from the version received.

^3^[]{#_bookmark65 .anchor}As a matter of best practice, it's useful to assume that all software may eventually be distributed later, even if there no plans for distribution at this time. Too often, GPL violations occur because of a late distribution decision of software that was []{#_bookmark66 .anchor}otherwise never intended for distribution.

^4^"Compilation" in this context refers to the automated computing process of converting source code into binaries. It has absolutely nothing to do with the term "compilation" in copyright statues.

Based on the appearance of those two words, GPL theorists will often refer to the source code required under the previsions of this section as "Complete, Corresponding Source", sometimes abbreviated as CCS. CCS is not a formal, defined term in GPLv2, but rather, GPL theorists coined the acronym CCS to embody not just the concepts of "complete" and "corresponding" as found in GPLv2, but the entirety of GPLv2's requirements for source code provisioning. In other words, GPL theorists might say: "the company provided some source, but it wasn't CCS", which would mean the source code failed in some ways to meet some term of GPLv2.

Indeed, CCS needs completely include not just that source which is directly translated by the compiler into object code, but other materials necessary to convert the source into equivalent binaries. Specifically, GPLv2 3 requires that the source code include "meta-material" like scripts, interface definitions, and other material that is used to "control compilation and installation" of the binaries. In this manner, those further down the distribution chain are assured that they have the unabated freedom to build their own modified works from the sources provided.

This requirement is not merely of theoretical value. If you pay a high price for a copy of GPL'd binaries (which comes with CCS, of course), you have the freedom to redistribute that work at any fee you choose, or not at all. Sometimes, companies attempt a GPL-violating cozenage whereby they produce very specialized binaries (perhaps for an obscure architecture). They then give source code that does correspond, but withhold the "incantations" and build plans they used to make that source compile into the specialized binaries. Such distributions violate GPL, since the downstream users cannot effectively "control compilation and installation" of the binaries.

#### Additional Source Provision Options

Software distribution comes in many forms. Embedded manufacturers, for example, have the freedom to put GPL'd software into mobile devices with very tight memory and space constraints. In such cases, putting the source right alongside the binaries on the machine itself might not be an option. While it is recommended that this be the default way that people comply with GPL, the GPL does provide options when such distribution is unfeasible.

GPLv2 3, therefore, allows source code to be provided on any physical "medium customarily used for software interchange." By design, this phrase covers a broad spectrum --- the phrase seeks to pre-adapt to changes in technology. When GPLv2 was first published in June 1991, distribution on magnetic tape was still common, and CD was relatively new. By 2002, CD was the default. By 2007, DVD's were the default. Now, it's common to give software on USB drives and SD cards. This language in the license must adapt with changing technology.

Meanwhile, the binding created by the word "customarily" is key. Many incorrectly believe that dis- tributing binary on CD and source on the Internet is acceptable. In the corporate world in industrialized countries, it is indeed customary to simply download a CDs' worth of data quickly. However, even today in the USA, many computer users are not connected to the Internet, and most people connected to the Internet still have limited download speeds. Downloading CDs full of data is not customary for them in the least. In some cities in Africa, computers are becoming more common, but Internet connectivity is still available only at a few centralized locations. Thus, the "customs" here are normalized for a worldwide userbase. Simply providing source on the Internet --- while it is a kind, friendly and useful thing to do --- is not usually sufficient.

Note, however, a major exception to this rule, given by the last paragraph of GPLv2 3. *If* distribution of the binary files is made only on the Internet (i.e., "from a designated place"), *then* simply providing the source code right alongside the binaries in the same place is sufficient to comply with GPLv2 *§*3.

As is shown above, under GPLv2 3(a), embedded manufacturers can put the binaries on the device and ship the source code along on a CD. However, sometimes this turns out to be too costly. Including a CD with every device could prove too costly, and may practically (although not legally) prohibit using GPL'd software. For this situation and others like it, GPLv2*§* 3(b) is available.

GPLv2 3(b) allows a distributor of binaries to instead provide a written offer for source code alongside those binaries. This is useful in two specific ways. First, it may turn out that most users do not request the source, and thus the cost of producing the CDs is saved --- a financial and environmental windfall. In addition, along with a GPLv2 3(b) compliant offer for source, a binary distributor might choose to *also* give a URL for source code. Many who would otherwise need a CD with source might turn out to have those coveted high bandwidth connections, and are able to download the source instead --- again yielding environmental and financial windfalls.

However, note that regardless of how many users prefer to get the source online, GPLv2 3(b) does place lasting long-term obligations on the binary distributor. The binary distributor must be prepared to honor that offer for source for three years and ship it out (just as they would have had to do under GPLv2 3(a)) at a moment's notice when they receive such a request. There is real organizational cost here: support engineers must be trained how to route source requests, and source CD images for every release version for the last three years must be kept on hand to burn such CDs quickly. The requests might not even come from actual customers; the offer for source must be valid for "any third party".

That phrase is another place where some get confused --- thinking again that full public distribution of source is required. The offer for source must be valid for "any third party" because of the freedoms of redistribution granted by GPLv2 1--2. A company may ship a binary image and an offer for source to only one customer. However, under GPL, that customer has the right to redistribute that software to the world if she likes. When she does, that customer has an obligation to make sure that those who receive the software from her can exercise their freedoms under GPL --- including the freedom to modify, rebuild, and redistribute the source code.

GPLv2 3(c) is created to save her some trouble, because by itself GPLv2 3(b) would unfairly favor large companies. GPLv2 3(b) allows the separation of the binary software from the key tool that people can use to exercise their freedom. The GPL permits this separation because it is good for re-distributors, and those users who turn out not to need the source. However, to ensure equal rights for all software users, anyone along the distribution chain must have the right to get the source and exercise those freedoms that require it.

Meanwhile, GPLv2 3(b)'s compromise primarily benefits companies that distribute binary software commercially. Without GPLv2 3(c), that benefit would be at the detriment of the companies' customers; the burden of source code provision would be unfairly shifted to the companies' customers. A customer, who had received binaries with a GPLv2 3(b)-compliant offer, would be required under GPLv2 (sans GPLv2 3(c)) to acquire the source, merely to give a copy of the software to a friend who needed it. GPLv2 3(c) reshifts this burden to entity who benefits from GPLv2 3(b).

GPLv2 3(c) allows those who undertake *noncommercial* distribution to simply pass along a GPLv2 3(b)- compliant source code offer. The customer who wishes to give a copy to her friend can now do so without provisioning the source, as long as she gives that offer to her friend. By contrast, if she wanted to go into business for herself selling CDs of that software, she would have to acquire the source and either comply via GPLv2 3(a), or write her own GPLv2 3(b)-compliant source offer.

This process is precisely the reason why a GPLv2 3(b) source offer must be valid for all third parties. At the time the offer is made, there is no way of knowing who might end up noncommercially receiving a copy of the software. Companies who choose to comply via GPLv2 3(b) must thus be prepared to honor all incoming source code requests. For this and the many other additional necessary complications under GPLv2 *§§*3(b--c), it is only rarely a better option than complying via GPLv2 *§*3(a).
