

Conclusion
==========

结语
==========

In its purest form, OSS development is a way of producing software
that relies entirely on self-organizing communities of individuals who
come together voluntarily to work on a software project. However, most
successful OSS communities mix elements of hierarchy and
self-organization and rely on meritocratic principles of organiza-
tion. In other words, the most skilled and experienced community
members provide leadership and help integrate contributions from the
community.

在其最纯粹的形式中，每个人自愿聚集在一起共同为一个软件项目工作，开源软件开发是完全依靠这些个人的自组织社区的一种生产软件的方式。然而，大多数成功的开源软件社区混入了等级制度和自我组织的元素，并依靠精英领导的组织原则。换句话说，最有技能和经验的社区成员领导其他人，并帮助整合社区的贡献。

This combination of decentralized innovation and effective leader-
ship is integral to the long-term viability and success of open source
projects. As Professor Christopher Yoo put it, "Success of an open
source project depends on inspiring a community of people willing to
work on it. In a real sense, an open source leader's authority depends
on the existence of followers. In a world where all contri- butions
are voluntary, and the community is always free to exit the community
by forking the project, leaders' ability to retain their positions
depends largely on their responsiveness to the needs of those led.
These needs include providing fast feedback, serving as an effective
moderator of technical disputes and personality con- flicts, and
realistic interim and long-term goals."30

这种去中心化的创新和有效的领导力的结合对于开源项目的长期生存能力和成功是不可或缺的。正如 Christopher Yoo 教授所说的，"成员都愿意为之工作，是一个开源项目成功的关键。从根源上来说，是支持者赋予了一名开源领导者权威。当所有的贡献都是自愿的，而且社区总是可以通过复刻项目自由地独立于社区时，领导者保持其地位的能力在很大程度上取决于他们对被领导者的需求的反应能力。这些需求包括提供快速的反馈，有效地协调技术争端和个性冲突，以及现实的中期和长期目标"。^30^

The Linux ecosystem provides an excellent example of how leader- ship
and strong governance can reduce fragmentation. In the early days of
Linux, Linus Torvalds' role as the project leader was instru- mental
in averting the risk of fragmentation and project forking.

Linux 生态系统就是一个阐释领导力和强有力的管理为何可以减少分裂的很好的例子。在 Linux 初期，Linus Torvalds 作为项目的领导者，在避免分裂和降低项目复刻的风险方面发挥了作用。

Torvalds' status as Linux's creator made him the natural person to
exercise authority over the community. When required, Torvalds did not
hesitate to take action to prevent significant forks from emerging.
However, he bolstered his authority by taking great care to document
and justify his decisions. His dedication and sound judgment in
managing the community fostered considerable goodwill, as did his deft
touch in handling community politics and interpersonal dynamics.
Ultimately, that transparency also enabled

Linus to delegate decision-making for the codebase to core main-
tainers, who have over decades grown to be the core engine of con-
tribution to and maintenance of the modern Linux kernel.

Torvalds 的 Linux 创造者身份，使他成为对社区行使权力的自然人。当有需要时，Torvalds 毫不犹豫地采取行动，以阻止影响重大的复刻。 然而，他通过重视文档和谨言慎行来加强他的权威。他在管理社区方面的奉献精神和正确的判断力，以及他在处理社区政治和人际关系动态方面的灵巧触觉，使得社区更加融洽。最终，这种透明度也使 Linus 能够将代码库的决策权下放给核心维护者，这些维护者经过几十年的发展，已经成为现代 Linux 内核贡献和维护的中流砥柱。

As Professor Yoo concludes, "To say that open source projects require
a type of leadership that is somewhat different from the leadership
that characterizes commercial companies that produce proprietary
software is not to say that they need no leadership at all. On the
contrary, ensuring that an open source platform does not fragment
depends on the presence of an actor with sufficient authority to
resolve disputes and to steer the platform in a beneficial
direction."31

正如 Yoo 教授所总结的，"说开源项目需要一种与生产专利软件的商业公司不同的领导力，并不是说它们根本不需要领导。恰恰相反，要确保一个开源平台不分裂，就必须有一个有足够权威的人来解决争端，引导平台向有利的方向发展"。^31^

In discussions for the study, open source leaders offered several
additional concrete recommendations to address some of the pain points
described in this report. We divide the recommendations into two broad
categories: a) managing fragmentation in the devel- opment and
governance of open source solutions and b) confront- ing
techno-nationalism and fostering global inclusion.

在本研究的讨论中，开源领袖们提出了一些额外的具体建议，以解决本报告中描述的一些痛点。我们将这些建议分为两大类：a）管理开源解决方案的开发和治理中的分裂问题；b）对抗技术民族主义，促进全球包容。

Managing fragmentation
----------------------

管理分裂
----------------------

The recommendations for managing fragmentation in the develop- ment
and governance of open source solutions include forging greater
alignment between open source projects, strengthening inter-foun-
dation collaboration, and harnessing open source maturity models to
help identify robust code libraries and components.

管理开源解决方案的开发和治理的分裂的建议包括在开源项目之间形成更大的一致性，加强基金会之间的合作，并利用开源成熟模型来帮助识别强大的代码库和组件。

##### HARNESS MATURITY MODELS

##### 利用成熟模型

While open source leaders acknowledge some fragmentation- related
challenges, they warn that "solving" the fragmentation problem risks
killing the goose that laid the golden egg. "When people perceive
fragmentation, they often look at it from a consumer point of view,"
said Mike Milinkovich of the Eclipse

Foundation. "They see a broad landscape of possible solutions and
wonder what is safe, what is supported, and what is sustainable."
Rather than "solving fragmentation," Milinkovich and others suggest
that an open source maturity model would make it easier to identify
robust code libraries and components and thus focus the community's
efforts. As Mike Dolan put it, "The proliferation of open source
projects is not necessarily bad. It just means that there are many
options out there. It also means that we need better filters to make
it easy for developers and end users to discover the little modules
that do things that are useful for them."

虽然开放源码的领导者承认存在一些分裂相关的问题，但他们警告说，"解决 "分裂问题无异于杀鸡取卵。"Eclipse 基金会的 Mike Milinkovich 说："当人们意识到分裂问题时，他们往往是从消费者的角度来看待它的。"他们能想出很多的解决方案，思考什么是安全的，什么是被支持的，什么是可持续的。"Milinkovich 和其他人建议，一个开源成熟模型将使人们更容易识别强大的代码库和组件，从而集中社区的努力，而不是"解决分裂问题"。正如 Mike Dolan 所说，"开源项目的扩散不一定是坏事，它只是意味着外面有很多选择。这也意味着我们需要更好的识别者，使开发者和终端用户更容易发现那些对他们有用的小模块。"

##### ENLIST SKILLED COMMUNITY MANAGERS

##### 招募杰出的社区管理人员

![](media/image70.png)

If effective leadership is integral to successful open source
projects, then skilled community managers are the foot soldiers for
building high-performing collaboration networks.

如果说有效的领导力是成功的开源项目所不可或缺的，那么杰出的社区经理就是建立高性能协作关系网的步卒。

Unfortunately, in a world dominated by proprietary technologies, few
people understand how to create and grow an open source ecosystem.
However, Calista Redmond of RISC-V points out that technologists are
adapting to a new way of working as open stan- dards increasingly
overtake proprietary approaches. "Ethernet is a great example," said
Redmond, "where proprietary approaches are now nearly nonexistent."
Redmond and her colleagues have built the RISC-V community from
scratch to become the world's most popular open and widely used
microprocessor instruction set architecture standard. Along the way,
RISC-V encountered numerous concerns about forking, especially when
companies in

the ecosystem identified missing pieces and had the temptation to
develop proprietary solutions.

不幸的是，在一个由专项技术主导的世界里，几乎没有人知道如何创建和发展一个开源的生态系统。然而，RISC-V 的 Calista Redmond 指出，随着开放的标准取代技术专制，技术专家正在适应一种新的工作方式。"以太网是一个很好的例子，"Redmond 说，"现在技术专制几乎不存在了。" Redmond 和她的同事们创建了 RISC-V 社区，使其从零开始成为世界上最受欢迎的开放和广泛使用的微处理器指令集架构标准。一路走来，RISC-V 遇到了许多关于复刻的担忧，尤其是当生态系统中的公司发现某部分缺失并企图开发专有解决方案时。

To avoid fragmentation in the community, Redmond and her team work
hard to gather participants and align efforts on the missing pieces.
"We have to run really fast to catch up with our community," said
Redmond. "It's a different skill set. Most people have built
proprietary strongholds. We need people who know how to orchestrate
true collaboration. Our CTO comes from Sun Microsystems, where he was
responsible for Solaris. He is very community-oriented. You need to
find those people with the skills for ecosystem leadership."

为了避免社区的分裂，Redmond 和她的团队努力聚集起参与者，并专攻缺失的部分。"我们必须跑得非常快才能让我们的社区不落后，"Redmond 说。"这是一套与之前不同的技能。大多数人在自己的技术领域都有所建树。我们需要清楚如何编排协作的人。我们的首席技术官来自 Sun Microsystems，他在那里负责 Solaris 的工作。他是非常注重社区的。你需要找到那些有生态系统领导力的人。"

##### ALIGN OPEN SOURCE PROJECTS AROUND SHARED GOALS

##### 围绕共同目标调整开源项目

Open source foundations are reluctant to play a lead role in identi-
fying and championing winning open source projects, arguing that
picking winners is a marketplace function. However, leaders do see a
need for better project curation and want foundations and other

[]{#_bookmark22 .anchor}ecosystem participants to make greater efforts
to align projects with similar objectives. "We nurture multiple
projects, and some- times they overlap," said Gabriele Columbro,
general manager of [**Linux Foundation
Europe**](https://linuxfoundation.eu/). "But the most mature
foundations have a project life cycle where they can help coalesce
efforts and even consolidate projects." Columbro says that survival of
the fittest, or "open source Darwinism," will usually dictate which
projects are ultimately sustainable. However, he and other open source
leaders agree that bringing similar projects under a shared umbrella
can eliminate duplication, economize overhead, and reduce so-called
"vendor fatigue." In some instances, foundations could also do

a better job killing or archiving projects. "We are very good at
bringing projects in," said Columbro. "But it's equally important we
do a great job cycling projects through the life cycle and shelving
projects when necessary."

开源基金会不愿意主导识别和支持获胜的开源项目，认为挑选获胜者是市场的职能。然而，领导者确实认为需要更好的项目策划，并希望基金会和其他生态系统的参与者做出更大的努力，使具有类似目标的项目保持一致。"我们培育了多个项目，有些项目会重叠，"[**欧洲 Linux 基金会**](https://linuxfoundation.eu/)的总经理 Gabriele Columbro 说。"但最成熟的基金有一个项目生命周期，他们可以帮助凝聚力量，甚至巩固项目。" Columbro 说，适者生存主义，或 "开源界的达尔文主义"，通常会决定出哪些项目最终可以持续。然而，他和其他开源的领导者都同意，将类似的项目放在一个共同的保护伞下，可以消除冗余，节省开销，并减少所谓的 "供应商疲劳"。在某些情况下，基金会取消或归档项目能做得更好。"我们非常善于引进项目，"Columbro 说。"但同样重要的是，我们要在项目的生命周期内做好循环工作，并在必要时搁置项目。"

##### STRENGTHEN INTER-FOUNDATION COLLABORATION ON ECOSYSTEM CHALLENGES

##### 加强基金会间在生态系统遭遇的挑战方面的合作

The need for enhanced collaboration between open source projects and
foundations extends to other priorities for the ecosys- tem, including
joint efforts to advance open source advocacy on a range of Internet
governance issues. Mark Surman of the Mozilla Foundation said
foundation leaders could leverage the communi- ty's shared values as a
starting point for collaboration. "The open source community is united
by core values such as independence, decentralization, public assets,
and public benefits," said Surman. "In essence, we agree on the vital
role of the commons." The next step is to convene the foundation
leaders and work together to identify shared policy goals. "What are
possible threads of unity, and to what ends should we pull them?" asks
Surman.

加强开源项目和基金会之间的合作的必要性延伸到了生态系统的其他优先事项上，如共同努力推动开源在一系列互联网治理问题上的宣传。Mozilla基金会的Mark Surman说，基金会领导人可以利用社区的共同价值观作为合作的起点。"Surman 说："开源社区因独立、去中心化、公共资产和公共利益等核心价值观而团结在一起。"在本质上，我们认同公有的重要作用"。我们下一步就是要召集各基金会领导人，确定共同的政策目标。"Surman 问道："我们应该因什么主题而团结，我们最终应该达到什么目的？

One goal that all ecosystem leaders agree on is the need to build
trust and confidence in OSS and support the ongoing maintenance of
critical open source infrastructure. "The cybersecurity order from the
White House has put the ecosystem on notice," said Jerry

Cuomo of IBM. "Now, the stewards of open source need to step up. It
would be huge if the community had a shared ledger and audit system
where we could demonstrate that the software is robust and secure. We
need a transparent, ecosystem-wide view of our vulnerabilities, and we
need to be able to predict potential problems. That's an OSS service
that the community can trust."

生态系统的所有领导者都认同的一个目标是需要建立对开源软件的信任和信心，并支持对关键开源基础设施的持续维护。"IBM 的 Jerry Cuomo 说："白宫的网络安全命令让生态系统注意到了这一点。"现在，开放源代码的管理人需要站出来。如果社区有一个我们能靠其证明软件稳健和安全的共享的分类账簿和审计系统的话，它一定会很庞大。我们需要一个透明的、全生态系统的脆弱点视图，而且我们需要能够预测潜在的问题。这就是社区可以信任的 OSS 服务。"

Open source security and sustainability are top of mind, but eco-
system leaders point to various policy issues on which open source
foundations could find common ground. "The foundations should do more
to educate policymakers and work on shared issues such as data
security, intellectual property, antitrust, and privacy, among other
things," said Peixin Hou of Huawei. "We urgently need global action on
these issues."

开源安全和可持续发展是人们最关心的问题，但生态系统的领导者指出了各种政策问题，开源基金会可以在这些问题上找到共同点。"华为的侯培新说："基金会应该做更多的工作来指导政策制定者，并在数据安全、知识产权、反垄断和隐私等共同问题上努力。"我们迫切需要在这些问题上采取行动。"

Confronting techno-nationalism and fostering global inclusion
-------------------------------------------------------------

对抗技术民族主义和促进全球包容
-------------------------------------------------------------

The recommendations for confronting techno-nationalism and fostering
global inclusion include positioning foundations as neutral actors,
building reputation frameworks and audit systems for open source code,
and creating tools and protocols for inte- grating diverse
contributors into open source communities.

对抗技术民族主义和促进全球包容性的建议有：将基金会定位为中立方，为开源代码建立信誉框架和审计系统，以及创建工具和协议，将不同的贡献者纳入开源代码社区。

##### BUILD REPUTATION FRAMEWORKS

##### 建立信誉框架

Adherence to transparent and secure development protocols is,
ultimately, the best antidote to fears that national interests could
taint or even corrupt open source projects. "To counter the tech-
no-nationalism, we need to instill trust in the software develop- ment
process," said Jim Zemlin. For example, Zemlin proposes the creation
of reputation frameworks with better peer review and third-party
audits. "We need trust networks that are transparent and scalable
enough to work across open source communities," said Zemlin. "You can
think of it as a liquidity of trust. Where you are from and whom you
work for are not as relevant as knowing

that your work is trustworthy and high-quality. It's the code that is
vital. So we need a reputation framework for the codebase."

坚持透明和安全的开发协议，是防止小团体玷污甚至腐蚀开源项目的良药。Jim Zemlin 说："为了对抗技术民族主义，我们需要在软件开发过程中灌输信任。"例如，Zemlin 建议建立具有更好的同侪审查和第三方审计的信誉框架。"我们需要足够透明和可扩展的信任关系网，以便在整个开源社区发挥作用，"Zemlin说。"你可以把它看作是一种信任的流通。你来自哪里，为谁工作，都不如你的工作是值得信赖且高质量的。代码才是至关重要的。所以我们需要一个代码库的信誉框架。"

##### POSITION FOUNDATIONS AND PROJECTS AS NEUTRAL ACTORS

##### 将基金会和项目定位为中立方

In addition to reputation frameworks, positioning open source
foundations and projects as impartial actors is critical to creating a
neutral home for global collaboration. Establishing neutral,
inclusive, and transparent structures for collaboration will not only
broaden participation but can also reduce incentives for ecosystem
participants to create parallel efforts. Reflecting on his work at
ICANN, Rod Beckstrom said his number-one job was building a neutral
zone in the domain name system that holds the Internet together. "We
did everything we could to bring China and Russia into the tent," said
Beckstrom. "We were doing it for the global community. Otherwise, we
are starting from a position of mistrust." Likewise, building
confidence in ICANN's protocols and decision-making process was
critical to creating a produc- tive relationship with countries that
were suspicious of American dominance of Internet governance. "As long
as the system works openly and fairly, everyone can participate," said
Beckstrom. "The Internet is a global infrastructure---it must remain
neutral. It's to the benefit of the world."

除了信誉框架外，开源基金会和项目的行为公正，对于为全球协作创造一个中立的家园至关重要。建立中立、包容和透明的协作结构，不仅可以让更多的人参与进来，还可以减少生态系统不同参与者的重复工作。 同样，在 ICANN 的协议和决策过程中建立信心，对于与那些怀疑美国在互联网治理中的主导地位的国家建立富有成效的关系至关重要。"Beckstrom 说："只要这个系统公开、公平地运作，每个人都可以参与。"互联网是一个全球基础设施，它必须保持中立。这对世界来说是有利的。"

##### EDUCATE POLICYMAKERS ABOUT THE DOWNSIDES OF TECHNO-NATIONALISM

##### 让决策者了解技术民族主义的弊端

To combat techno-nationalism, ecosystem leaders must convince
policymakers that restricting the transfer of critical innovations
across national borders is paradoxical and self-defeating in a world
where cross-border collaborations are the backbone of countless
innovation communities. Calista Redmond and others argue that open
source and global standards provide a superior path for both local and
global economic growth because global collaboration

leads to global markets with long-term strategic importance. "Every
country has a home-team bias, but the growing techno-nationalism is a
major concern," said Redmond. "We need to educate the com- munity and
the policymakers about the downsides of techno-na- tionalism.
Countries can fund companies and initiatives locally,

but they must participate globally. Countries won't be successful if
they close off collaboration at national borders." Columbro even

adopted that perspective as a motto to define the mission of Linux
Foundation Europe: "Collaborate locally, innovate globally."

为了打击技术民族主义，生态系统的领导者必须说服政策制定者，在一个无数创新社区以跨境合作为支柱的世界里，限制关键创新的跨国界转移是自相矛盾和自取灭亡的。Calista Redmond 和其他人认为，开源和全球标准为本地和全球经济增长提供了一条优越的道路，因为全球合作促成了具有长期战略意义的全球市场。"每个国家都有自己的主场球队，但日益增长的技术民族主义是一个重大的问题，"Redmond 说。"我们需要让社区和政策制定者了解技术民族主义的弊端。国家可以资助当地的一些公司和倡议，但他们必须要参与到全球的社区。如果每个国家都闭关锁国，那么他们就不会成功。" Columbro 甚至把这个观点作为座右铭来定义欧洲 Linux 基金会的使命："本地协作，全球创新"。

##### CREATE THE CONDITIONS TO INTEGRATE DIVERSE CONTRIBUTORS

##### 为整合不同的贡献者创造条件

The challenges of integrating different languages and cultures into
open source communities are not new problems, and there is
considerable confidence in the ecosystem's capacity to foster global
inclusion. As Stormy Peters at GitHub explains, "The open source
community has been integrating diversity for a long time. We have
people contributing from across Europe, Asia, Africa, and South
America. We have always understood the importance of international
networks and communications, even more than the corporate community.
We have leveraged asynchronous commu- nications to address the fact
that users in some regions had less Internet bandwidth."

将不同语言和文化融入开源社区的挑战并不是新问题，而且人们对生态系统促进全球包容的能力有相当大的信心。正如 GitHub 公司的 Stormy Peters 所解释的那样，"开源
社区长期以来一直在整合多样性。我们有来自欧洲、亚洲、非洲和南美洲的贡献者。我们一直都明白国际网络和交流的重要性，甚至比企业界更了解。我们利用异步通信来解决一些地区的用户网络不便的问题"。

The sheer number of people that GitHub and other organizations are
onboarding into the global open source community provides proof of the
ecosystem's progress in integrating diverse contributors. "We have
proven that open source projects can operate globally," said Peters.
"We are working effectively across regions and in multiple languages.
We are creating OSPOs to structure the engagement of companies and
organizations with the open source community."

GitHub 和其他组织加入全球开源社区的人数之多，证明了该生态系统在整合不同贡献者方面的进展。"Peters 说："我们已经证明，开源项目可以在全球范围内运作。"我们正在跨地区、多语言地有效工作。我们正在创建 OSPO，以构建公司和组织与开源社区的接触。"

Open source leaders agree, however, that the community can do more to
promote global inclusion. For example, open source

leaders underlined the need to invest in rapid machine translation

[]{#_bookmark23 .anchor}capabilities for project communications. Open
source leaders also discussed the importance of promoting open source
norms, taming the industry's macho "bro" culture, and fostering
professionalism

in community dialogues and decision-making. Finally, collaboration
platforms such as GitHub can enable open source communities to
integrate diverse contributions at scale. Key advances in the GitHub
platform include new tools to improve collaboration, translate mate-
rials, and monitor the productivity and engagement of community
members. "We believe we have the tools to bring open source col-
laboration to a new level," said Peters.

然而，开源领袖们也认为，社区可以做更多的工作来促进全球包容。例如，开源领袖们强调，需要致力于便于项目沟通的快速机器翻译能力。开源领袖们还讨论了促进开源规范的重要性，驯服行业中大男子主义的 "兄弟 "文化，并在社区对话和决策中培养专业精神。最后，像 GitHub 这样的协作平台可以使开源社区大规模地整合各种贡献。GitHub 平台的关键进展包括用于改善合作、翻译工作以及监测社区成员的生产力和参与度的新工具。"Peters说："我们相信我们拥有的工具可以将开源协作带到一个新的高度。

Final thoughts
--------------

最后的思考
--------------

By any yardstick, OSS is wildly successful. Hundreds of millions of
users of set-top boxes, smart fridges, and other home appli- ances use
OSS, and billions of people use it indirectly whenever they access
Google, Facebook, or the myriad of other apps and

websites. Whether you drive a Tesla, Toyota, or Mercedes, chances are
very high it's running Linux and open source in the back- ground.32 So
too are the supercomputers that power everything from advanced climate
models to AI-enabled drug discovery and other scientific pursuits,
such as astronomy, meteorology, and nuclear physics.33

无论用什么标准来衡量，开源软件都是非常成功的。数以亿计的机顶盒、智能冰箱和其他家用电器的用户在使用开源软件，数十亿人在访问谷歌、脸书或其他无数的应用程序和网站时也间接地使用它。无论你开的是特斯拉、丰田还是奔驰，它都很有可能在后台运行 Linux 和开源代码。^32^超级计算机也是如此，从先进的气候模型到人工智能驱动的药物发现和其他科学追求，如天文学、气象学和核物理学等等，它们为诸多领域提供动力。^33^

The global open source community powering these innovations is
encountering some inevitable fragmentation. Some of the frag-
mentation in software development is essential to how the open source
community functions. A globally decentralized ecosystem may produce
some overlap, but its constant churn of incremen- tal innovation and
improvement has yielded a vast reservoir of software building blocks
for the digital economy.

为这些创新提供动力的全球开源社区正遇到一些不可避免的分裂。软件开发中的一些分裂对开源社区的运作方式影响巨大。一个全球分布的生态系统可能会产生一些重复工作，但其不断的增量创新和改进已经为数字经济创造了巨大的软件构建储备。

In other instances, fragmentation in the community is creating
needless redundancy, driving up costs and complexity for producers and
consumers alike. Worst of all, intensifying techno- nationalism could
introduce new geopolitical fault lines, disrupting the free flow of
ideas and restricting the community's access to talented developers.

在其他情况下，社区的分裂正在造成不必要的冗余，增加了生产者和消费者的成本和复杂性。最糟糕的是，愈演愈烈的技术民族主义可能会带来新的地缘政治断层，扰乱思想的自由流动，限制社区与有才华的开发者的接触。

Now it is up to the community of developers, public and private sector
organizations, companies, foundations, and beyond to continue to push
for global collaboration. The open source commu- nity is larger, more
diverse, and more capable than ever, but its progress is not forever
inevitable. It is incumbent upon the commu- nity's leaders to take the
necessary steps to continue these trendlines into the future.

现在要靠开发者社区、公私部门组织、公司、基金会以及其他方面继续推动全球合作。开源社区比以往任何时候都更庞大、更多样化、更有能力，但它不是永不可挡的。社区的领导者有责任采取必要的措施，将这些趋势延续到未来。