Be patient and seek 
out influential peers 
when growing your 
domain expertise, 
open source 
methodology, and 
working practices.


Track success 
through specifically 
designed metrics 
for an open source 
environment.


Practice and 
encourage 
an open and 
collaborative 
mindset when 
implementing 
open source
infrastructure.


Follow a 
lightweight and 
tailored approach 
to source code 
contribution 
approvals.


Adopt IT infrastructure 
that is flexible 
and supportive 
of open source 
development.


Share information 
across divisions 
and foster internal 
collaborations for 
successful 
implementation 
of innersource 
practices.


Contribute 
strategically to 
projects that are 
commonly used 
across products and 
services to remain 
essential, justifiable, 
and fundable. 


Allocate time for 
open source 
developers to meet 
upstream 
responsibilities, 
especially if they 
are maintainers.


Partner with 
product teams on 
upstream code 
development that 
helps reduce their 
technical debt.


Develop open 
source talent 
internally, and 
encourage 
involvement in 
open source from 
developers across 
the organization.


Create a mentorship 
program to support 
the growth of junior 
developers and 
increase the quality 
and quantity of code 
accepted in open 
source projects.


Participate in and host 
open source events 
to build developer 
networks, participate 
in technical 
discussions, and 
increase visibility.


Copyright © 2023 The Linux Foundation | February 2023 
This report is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License. 


4


