
[]{#_bookmark209 .anchor}**CHAPTER 17**

STANDARD REQUESTS

As we noted above, different copyright holders have different
requirements for reinstating a violator's distri- bution rights. Upon
violation, you no longer have a license under the GPL. Copyright
holders can therefore set their own requirements outside the license
before reinstatement of rights. We have collected below a list of
reinstatement demands that copyright holders often require.

**Compliance on all Free Software copyrights**. Copyright holders of
Free Software often want a company to demonstrate compliance for all
GPL'd software in a distribution, not just their own. A copyright
holder may refuse to reinstate your right to distribute one program
unless and until you comply with the licenses of all Free Software in
your distribution.

**Notification to past recipients**. Users to whom you previously
distributed non-compliant software should receive a communication
(email, letter, bill insert, etc.) indicating the violation,
describing their rights under the GPL, and informing them how to
obtain a gratis source distribution. If a customer list does not exist
(such as in reseller situations), an alternative form of notice may be
required (such as a magazine advertisement).

**Appointment of a GPL Compliance Officer.** The software freedom
community values personal accountability when things go wrong.
Copyright holders often require that you name someone within the
violating company officially responsible for Free Software license
compliance, and that this indi- vidual serve as the key public contact
for the community when compliance concerns arise.

**Periodic Compliance Reports.** Many copyright holders wish to
monitor future compliance for some period of time after the violation.
For some period, your company may be required to send regular reports
on how many distributions of binary and source have occurred.

These are just a few possible requirements for reinstatement. In the
context of a GPL violation, and particularly under v2's termination
provision, the copyright holder may have a range of requests in
exchange for reinstatement of rights. These software developers are
talented professionals from whose work your company has benefited.
Indeed, you are unlikely to find a better value or more generous
license terms for similar software elsewhere. Treat the copyright
holders with the same respect you treat your corporate partners and
collaborators.

