
[]{#_bookmark210 .anchor}**CHAPTER 18**

SPECIAL TOPICS IN COMPLIANCE

There are several other issues that are less common, but also relevant
in a GPL compliance situation. To those who face them, they tend to be
of particular interest.

## LGPL Compliance

GPL compliance and LGPL compliance mostly involve the same issues. As
we discussed in [14.1,](#evaluate-license-applicability) questions of
modified versions of software are highly fact-dependent and cannot be
easily addressed in any overview document. The LGPL adds some
additional complexity to the analysis. Namely, the various LGPL
versions permit proprietary licensing of certain types of modified
versions. These issues are discussed in greater detail in Chapter
[10](#_bookmark147) and [11.](#_bookmark158) However, as a rule of
thumb, once you have determined (in accordance with LGPLv3) what part
of the work is the "Application" and what portions of the source are
"Minimal Corresponding Source", then you can usually proceed to follow
the GPL compliance rules that discussed above, replacing our
discussion of "Corresponding Source" with "Minimal Corresponding
Source".

LGPL also requires that you provide a mechanism to combine the
Application with a modified version of the library, and outlines some
options for this. Also, the license of the whole work must permit
"reverse engineering for debugging such modifications" to the library.
Therefore, you should take care that the EULA used for the Application
does not contradict this permission.

Thus, under the terms of LGPL, you must refrain from license terms on
works based on the licensed work that prohibit replacement of the
licensed components of the larger non-LGPL'd work, or prohibit
decompilation or reverse engineering in order to enhance or fix bugs
in the LGPL'd components.

LGPLv3 is not surprisingly easier to understand and examine from a
compliance lens, since the FSF was influenced in LGPLv3's drafting by
questions and comments on LGPLv2.1 over a period of years. Admittedly,
LGPLv2.1 is still in wide use, and thus compliance with LGPLv2.1
remains a frequent topic you may encounter. The best advice there is
careful study of Chapter [10.](#_bookmark147)

However, to repeat a key point here made within that chapter: Note
though that, since the LGPLv2.1 can be easily upgraded to
GPLv2-or-later, in the worst case you simply need to comply as if the
software was licensed under GPLv2. The only reason you must consider
the question of whether you have a "work that uses the library" or a
"work based on the library" is when you wish to take advantage of the
"weak copyleft" effect of the Lesser GPL. If GPLv2-or-later is an
acceptable license (i.e., if you plan to copyleft the entire work
anyway), you may find this an easier option.

## Upstream Providers

With ever-increasing frequency, software development (particularly for
embedded devices) is outsourced to third parties. If you rely on an
upstream provider for your software, note that you *cannot ignore your
GPL*

*compliance requirements* simply because someone else packaged the
software that you distribute. If you redistribute GPL'd software
(which you do, whenever you ship a device with your upstream's
software in it), you are bound by the terms of the GPL. No
distribution (including redistribution) is permissible absent
adherence to the license terms.

Therefore, you should introduce a due diligence process into your
software acquisition plans. This is much like the software-oriented
recommendations we make in [14.](#_bookmark176) Implementing practices
to ensure that you are aware of what software is in your devices can
only improve your general business processes. You should ask a clear
list of questions of all your upstream providers and make sure the
answers are complete and accurate. The following are examples of
questions you should ask:

-   What are all the licenses that cover the software in this device?

From which upstream vendors, be they companies or individuals, did
*you* receive your software before distributing it to us?

-   What are your GPL compliance procedures?

If there is GPL'd software in your distribution, we will be
redistributors of this GPL'd software. What mechanisms do you have in
place to aid us with compliance?

If we follow your recommended compliance procedures, will you formally
indemnify us in case we are nonetheless found to be in violation of
the GPL?

This last point is particularly important. Many GPL enforcement
actions are escalated because of petty finger-pointing between the
distributor and its upstream. In our experience, agreements regarding
GPL compliance issues and procedures are rarely negotiated up front.
However, when they are, violations are resolved much more smoothly (at
least from the point of view of the redistributor).

Consider the cost of potential violations in your acquisition process.
Using Free Software allows software vendors to reduce costs
significantly, but be wary of vendors who have done so without regard
for the licenses. If your vendor's costs seem "too good to be true,"
you may ultimately bear the burden of the vendor's inattention to GPL
compliance. Ask the right questions, demand an account of your
vendors' compliance procedures, and seek indemnity from them.

In particular, any time your vendor incorporates copylefted software,
you *must* exercise your own rights as a user to request CCS for all
the copylefted programs that your suppliers provided to you.
Furthermore, you must ensure that CCS is correct and adequate
yourself. Good vendors should help you do this, and make it easy. If
those vendors cannot, pick a different vendor before proceeding with
the product.

## Mergers and Acquisitions

Often, larger companies often encounter copyleft licensing during a
Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) process. Ultimately, a merger or
acquisition causes all of the other company's problems to become
yours. Therefore, for most concerns, the acquirer "simply" must apply
the compliance analysis and methodologies discussed earlier across the
acquired company's entire product line. Of course, this is not so
simple, as such effort may be substantial, but a well-defined process
for compliance investigation means the required work, while
voluminous, is likely rote.

A few sections of GPL require careful attention and legal analysis to
determine the risk of acquisitions. Those handling M&A issues should
pay particular attention to the requirements of GPLv2 7 and GPLv3 10--
12 --- focusing on how they relate to the acquired assets may be of
particular importance.

For example, GPLv3 10 clarifies that in business acquisitions, whether
by sale of assets or transfers of control, the acquiring party is
downstream from the party acquired. This results in new automatic
downstream licenses from upstream copyright holders, licenses to all
modifications made by the acquired business, and rights to source code
provisioning for the now-downstream purchaser. However, despite this
aid given by explicit language in GPLv3, acquirers must still confirm
compliance by the acquired (even if GPLv3 10 does assert the the
acquirers rights under GPL, that does not help if the acquired is out
of compliance altogether). Furthermore, for fear of later reprisal by
the acquirer if a GPL violation is later discovered in the acquired's
product line, the acquired may need to seek a waiver and release of
from

additional damages beyond a requirement to comply fully (and a promise
of rights restoration) if a GPL violation by the acquired is later
uncovered during completion of the acquisition or thereafter.

Finally, other advice available regarding handling of GPL compliance
in an M&A situation tends to ignore the most important issue: most
essential copylefted software is not wholly copyrighted by the
entities involved in the M&A transaction. Therefore, copyleft
obligations likely reach out to the customers of all entities
involved, as well as to the original copyright holders of the
copylefted work. As such, notwithstanding the two paragraphs in GPLv3
10, the entities involved in M&A should read the copyleft licenses
through the lens of third parties whose software freedom rights under
those licenses are of equal importance to then entities inside the
transaction.

## User Products and Installation Information

GPLv3 requires you to provide "Installation Information" when v3
software is distributed in a "User Prod- uct." During the drafting of
v3, the debate over this requirement was contentious. However, the
provision as it appears in the final license is reasonable and easy to
understand.

If you put GPLv3'd software into a User Product (as defined by the
license) and *you* have the ability to install modified versions onto
that device, you must provide information that makes it possible for
the user to install functioning, modified versions of the software.
Note that if no one, including you, can install a modified version,
this provision does not apply. For example, if the software is burned
onto an non-field- upgradable ROM chip, and the only way that chip can
be upgraded is by producing a new one via a hardware factory process,
then it is acceptable that the users cannot electronically upgrade the
software themselves.

Furthermore, you are permitted to refuse support service, warranties,
and software updates to a user who has installed a modified version.
You may even forbid network access to devices that behave out of
speci- fication due to such modifications. Indeed, this permission
fits clearly with usual industry practice. While it is impossible to
provide a device that is completely unmodifiable[^1^](#_bookmark216),
users are generally on notice that they risk voiding their warranties
and losing their update and support services when they make
modifications.[^2^](#_bookmark217)

GPLv3 is in many ways better for distributors who seek some degree of
device lock-down. Technical processes are always found for subverting
any lock-down; pursuing it is a losing battle regardless. With GPLv3,
unlike with GPLv2, the license gives you clear provisions that you can
rely on when you are forced to cut off support, service or warranty
for a customer who has chosen to modify.

## Beware The Consultant in Enforcers' Clothing

There are admittedly portions of the GPL enforcement community that
function somewhat like the
[computer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hacker_%28computer_security%29#Classifications)
[security and network penetration testing hacker
community.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hacker_%28computer_security%29#Classifications)
By analogy, most COGEO's consider themselves [white
hats,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_hat_%28computer_security%29)
while some might appropriately call [proprietary
relicensing](#business-models) by the name
["black](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hacker_%28computer_security%29#Black_hat)
hats". And, to finalize the analogy, there are indeed few [grey
hat](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grey_hat) GPL enforcers.

Grey hat GPL enforcers usually have done some community-oriented GPL
enforcement themselves, typ- ically working as a volunteer for a
COGEO, but make their living as a "hired gun" consultant to find GPL
violations and offer to "fix them" for companies. Other such operators
hold copyrights in some key piece of copylefted software and enforce
as a mechanism to find out who is most likely to fund improvements on
the software.

A few companies report that they have formed beneficial consulting or
employment relationships with developers they first encountered
through enforcement. In some such cases, companies have worked with
such consultants to alter the mode of use of the project's code in the
company's products. More often in these cases, the communication
channels opened in the course of the inquiry served other consulting
purposes later.

^1^[]{#_bookmark216 .anchor}Consider that the iPhone, a device
designed primarily to restrict users' freedom to modify it, was
unlocked and modified []{#_bookmark217 .anchor}within 48 hours of its
release.

^2^A popular t-shirt in the software freedom community reads: "I void
warranties.". Our community is well-known for modifying products with
full knowledge of the consequences. GPLv3's "Installation
Instructions" section merely confirms that reality, and makes sure GPL
rights can be fully exercised, even if users exercise those rights at
their own peril.

Feelings and opinions about this behavior are mixed within the larger
copyleft community. Some see it as a reasonable business model and
others renounce it as corrupt behavior. Regardless, a GPL violator
should always immediately determine the motivations of the enforcer
via documented, verifiable facts. For example, COGEOs such as the FSF
and Conservancy have made substantial public commitments to enforce in
a way that is uniform, transparent, and publicly documented.
Furthermore, since these specific organizations are public charities
in the USA, they are accountable to the IRS (and the public at large)
in their annual Form 990 filings. Everyone may examine their revenue
models and scrutinize their work.

However, entities and individuals who do GPL enforcement centered
primarily around a profit motive are likely the most dangerous
enforcement entities for one simple reason: an agreement to comply
fully with the GPL for past and future products --- always the
paramount goal to COGEOs --- may not suffice as adequate resolution
for a proprietary relicensing company or grey hat GPL enforcer.
Therefore, violators must consider carefully who has made the
enforcement inquiry and ask when and where the enforcer made public
commitments and reports regarding their enforcement work and perhaps
even ask the enforcer to directly mimic CEOGEO's detailed public
disclosures and follow the [standard requests for
resolution](#_bookmark209) found in this document.

